e Nan r r 
po, * h "OW EIN | 8 T earn "A 9 
at * * — . WK N 5 0 - | N. ® L 
ee TE a etl ok lax; 
; K N x - * 2 \ * 4 1 
- — . Ly 
- ; ff 0 ” \ g 4 
1 11 4 * 
8 rn 
TT 


=”, 


"New Univerſal Geograp ica 


6 RAM e 


Wu nazi THE. 


SITUATION AND EXTENT. 


* un st „41 
. % NT 1: s 
| Are laid down according to the moſt Exit 
GEOGRAPHICAL OBSERVATIONS, - 


AND THE 
r r 


"or ALL THE DiFFERENT 


KINGDOMS of the WORLD, 


* 


, 


- Is intetfperſed in aach 8 Manner, 
As leader the Study of Geography both Uſeful 
and Entertaining. 
bnd THESE run HEADS: | Fe Beg 
þ + Gogeliies Tous: Gn HI. A — deſcription. of the 
"The WIPE Worm” gr og od gg 


1. The 
eral Diviſions « of the _ Towns, reſpective fornis of Govern». 


blems, an 
Earth, neceſſary to be underſtaod as ment, Forces, Reveaues, Tins 


an Introdudtion to this Grammar. Hiſtory. 
ToGctTHYE wiTk 
is Ani ot the Ak, Soil, Produce, Traffic, Curioſities, Arms, nels; 


Language, Univerſities, Biſhoprics, Manners, Cuſtoms, Habits, and 
Coins, in uſe in the ſeveral Kingdoms and States treated of, 


ILLUSTRATED WITH/4-NEW AND CORRECT SET OF 
Mars OF THE COOFTeres DESCRIBED. 
: A 
| . 27 GB FRY 3. 1 AP 
Ma 8 ALM O N's GAAMu NAR. 


"> Brought down to the preſent time 
By” I. TONS EM 


e | 
inted and fold by W. Daz TIN EHM Ti, Whitchaven 
e - 


NM. Ve c. 2111 


1 
* 


Ac... 


— OI > OI ei SSSI $a wt — n = - 


__ 


_ "Uk i 
—— — * * 
— — E 2 


LY 
* 
3 


— 
* 


8 
1 


A414 


* 
* = 
* , a 
6. 
= 9 9 
wy 
2 
1 * 
13 
it 
= E 
- od 9 0 
1 3 — oc . 
* 4 
"4 pe * o 
2 Aj 
8 1 
* 4 A L 
wh N 
I v 
» = 
' ; ws © 
.4 
> 
pe \ * " 
%.. i 1 
0 
* 
+ 
= 
» 
ES. 
- 
#1 
a n 4% 
- | 


TO THE 


— 4 
_ Oe * 
* 9 J. : * * js 
% % 


r vn I 1 „ 


f 
* 


As the deſign of every Piblication or this Kind io to g 
complete account of the different countries deſcribed, ſo 


at 
leaſt as it is poſſible to do from the diſcoveries of travellers 
and navigators; we w__ that in the peruſal of the following 


ſheets, the Reader in view will not be diſappointed, /* © 
Every publication af the kind that hath hitherto appearedhazbeen, 


conſulted upon this occaſion : And as no performance on any 
ſubject is either ſo abſolutely perfect as to be entirely without 
defect, or ſo totally deſpicable as that nothing valuable can be 
extracted from it; by collecting what was of the greateſt im _ 
portance, and rejecting thoſe parts which ſeemed more trifiing; 
from other publications of the ſame nature, we hope. that 
PR Grammar will be found the moſt complete, as well for 
ſtruction as Entertainment, of any hitherto extant; and.” 
will, in every reſpec, deſerve the title of, The Un IVER SAL 


GeraGRAPAICAL GIANMAMAR. 


It would be impertinent to expatiate in the praiſe of a perfor - 
mance, the — of which every ew yer determine 

for himfelf. We hope, however, the candid Reader wilt 
excuſe us for taking notice, that tho My Salmen, in the” 
Preface to his Grammar, declared that he was more par- 
ticular in his deſcription of the Britiſh Iſles than any other part 

of the world, yet in his account of Scotland he is unaccounta- 

bly deficient : His deficiencies in this reſpect we have endea- 
voured to ſupply; and have alfo ſtudied to render the 
Hiſtorical part complete to the preſent time, eſpecially with +. 
regard to America; and as the war with the Colonies is, per- 

haps, an event of greater importance to this country than any 
recorded in hiſtory, it is hoped, that an accurate account 

of it will render this Work truly valuable to the Public in 


general. 
The PUBLISHERS. 


Thi, GA AM M AR contains One hundred and ſixteen pager, 2 
beets, more than any Geographical Grammar ever yet printed in this 
Bodom, ; 


* 9 * 
n 


VII. The Seven United Fein en with the Auſtrian, French, and 


. 
by 

og 
A 
1 
Y - 

& 4 


d Z by 4 2 * 
we "x 3 * |. p 0 
* nee — 
1 , V 


binrcrions to © Hina for plac ing 
the MAPS, | : 
1 HE World, to front the title e 


II. The Artificial Sphere, . N 
III. Europe, p. 67 989 


VI. Italy, p. 121 


Dutch Netherlands, p. 153 
vin. Germany, p. 170 
IX. Hungary, with Turkey in Europe, p. 204 
X. Poland, Lithuania, and Pruſſia, p. 214 
XI. Ruſſia, or Muſcovy in Europe, p. 233 
XII. Sweden, Denmark, Nor way, and Finland, p, 254 
XIII. England and Wales, p. 306 3 . 70 
XIV. Scotland, p. 444 4 
XV. Ireland, p. 490 
WW | | 
XVII. Turkey in Aſia, p. 513 ; 
XVIII. The Eaſt-Indics, p. 542 
XIX. China, p. 565 
XX. Africa, p. 386 bg 
XXI. North America, p. 610 | 
XXII. South America, p. 656 | \ 


XXIII. The Weſt Indies, p. 638 


N. B. The binder is deſired fo beat the book before he pie ir 
| 2 at 


THE 


PREF ACE 


/ 


- 


Oraixe ſurely, can be more particularly agreeable to 
every ſincere lover of the welfare of Society, and of 
his country, than to ſee learning of all kinds flouriſh, 

and the arts and ſciences generally diffuſed. In this iſland we 

are peculiarly happy in having ſurmounted thoſe illiberal 
prejudices, which, in other kingdoms of Europe, cramp the 
genius, ſour the temper of man, and diſturb all the agreeable 
intercourſe of ſociety, In this nation, learning is no longer 


confined to the ſchools of Philoſophers, or the courts of the 


great, but is become as univerſal as it is uſeful. 


Taegrz is no greater object of human curioſity than the 
knowledge of the ſtate of the World, -and the Manners, 
Cuſtoms, and Hiſtory of the ſeveral nations thereof; and 


it muſt certainly add very much to the ſatisfaction of 


every one who reads, to know the time when, and the * 
where, memorable actions were 


Bur the labour and difficulty chat is uſually apprehended 
in making theſe inquiries, frighten young gentlemen from 
attempting to inform themſelves in theſe particularsz though, 
without a general knowledge of them, they are neither ca- 
pable of —_— their country, nor qualified for ai 
tion, | 


Tais tract, therefore, * the youth of Great Britain 
with the world in miniature: which, it is preſumed, will be 
found to contain the moſt exact chronology, and the moſt 
perfect ſyſtem of geography now extant, with ſuch an epi- 

tome 


b 


a — 5 * * * * , . 
= . "= =O * 
«. 2 > = - 
* 1 


# _—_ 
vi - MA EFTACH 

tome of Modern hiſtory, or the preſent ſtate of all nations, as 
will render the work agreeable to every taſte, 


Ir is a very juſt obſervation, That a writer muſt not ex- 
pect many readers, who does not accommodate himſelf to the 
taſte of thoſe gentlemen to whom he addreſſes his work. 


"Ano we need not be at a loſs to know what is agreeable | 
to moſt people, when we find every gentleman, and almoſt 
every lady, inquiring into the hiſtory of the day, and read- 
ing the moſt trifling Ae which nothing but the no- 
velty can recommend. 


Tazsz they are not afraid to venture upon, when a folio 
of any dimenſions, repleniſhed with the moſt intereſting 
- truths, would lye neglected, under an apprehenſion that it 
was impoſſible to go through it, or to retain in their memo- 
ries what it contained, if they ſhould attempt it. 


Tats work, therefore, has the charms of brevity, as well 
as novelty, to engage a general attention. An hour's read- 
ing will give a gentleman a tolerable idea of the ſtate of any 
country he is pleaſed to make the ſubje& of his inquiries. 
Here the ſenator and politician may view the conſtitution, 
forces, and revenues, of the reſpective kingdoms and fates ; 
the divine may obferve the religion and ſuperſtition of the re- 
ſpective people; the merchant, and marine officer, the pro- 
duce, traffic, periodical winds and ſeaſons, in the various cli- 
mates of the globe. | 


Ix thoſe that have not read larger accounts, it may create 
an appetite to ſearch further into theſe intereſting ſubjects, 
and in thoſe who have been converſant in larger works, it 
may recal the memory to what they have read, and prevent 
that confuſion in Chronology and Geography which is too apt 
to attend the reading many hiſtories of different countries. 


Axp, as the ſtate of our own .country concerns us more 
than that of any other, I have been more particular in the 
deſcription of the Britiſh iſles, than of any other part of the 


world. Foreigners juſtly expect from us a better account of 
our 


5 * 46.4 "_— ey . 


PREFAC & of 
our on country than of diſtant nations. In the Hiſtorical 
part alſo, the origin of the preſent war with America is care- 


fully traced, and an exact account of it given from the beſt 
authorities. 


Bur notwithſtanding I have been more particular in conſi- 
dering the ſtate of the Britiſh iſles than that of ſome other 
countries, I would not be thought to want a due regard for 
all mankind. As I am a citizen of the gforld, I look upon all 
men as my brethren. and have long endeavoured to ſet them 
right in their notions of one another, 


I aw extremely concerned to ſee almoſt every people re- 
preſenting the inhabitants of diſtant nations as barbariars, 
and treating them as ſuch, 


Fox my part, I have met with people as polite, ingenious, 
and humane, whom we have been taught to look upon as 
cannibals, as ever I converſed with in Europe; and, from 
my own experience, am convinced, that human nature is every 
where the ſame ; allowances being made for unavoidable 
prejudices, occaſioned by cuſtom, education, and favage 
principles, inſtilled into many in their infancy 1 
ſuperſtitious, or deſigning men, about them: and, as I have 
obſerved on other occaſions, nothing has contributed more 
to render the world barbarous, than their having been taught, 
from their cradles, that every nation almoſt, but their own, 
are barbarians. They firſt imagine the people of diſtant na- 
tions to be monſters of cruelty and barbarity ; and then 
prepare to invade and extirpate them, exerciſing greater 
cruelties than ever ſuch nations were charged with; which 
was exactly the caſe of the Spaniards, and the natives of A- 


merica, 


Two things we ſee contribute greatly to make men rapa- 
cious and cruel ; namely, covetouſneſs, and miſtaken notions 
in religion. Some make gold their God, and then every 
thing muſt bow to that; others think they do God good ſer- 
vice, by murdering and extirpating nations of a different 
faith, They imagine this furious and miſtaken zeal will infal- 


libly procure them ſeats in paradiſe, Thus, religion, which 
| is 


b 2 


n * T1 * 


. N * * 
_ g a * 9 * 1 
n 1 _ . l 
* 0 — 
N A Vs bi. 


"I ub AfA e 
is the beſt thing in the world, and deſigned to improve and 


” meliorate mankind, is converted to the very worſt r | 
by ignorant or deſigning men. Doren 


Tuis Work is adorned with a new ſet of maps, corrected 
according to the obſervations of the lateſt and belt geographers. 
Intheſe maps the degrees of Eaſtern and Weſtern longitude will 
be found on the top of each map, and the hours and minutes 
every place lies Eaſt ur Weſt of London, (the firſt meridian,) 
at the bottom of the map ; ſhewing, at one view, the number of 


degrees, and the difference, in point of time, between any 


two places on the globe: For inſtance, any place which is ſi- 
tuated one degree Eaſt of another, will appear to have the 
ſun four minutes of time before it; and a place ſituated one 
degree Weſt of another, will appear to have the ſun four 
minutes after it. Again, a place ſituated 15 degrees Eaſt of 
us, (as Naples,) will appear to have the ſun one complete 
hour before us at London; and a place ſituated 15 degrees 
Weſt of us, (as the iſland of Madeira,) will appear to have 
the ſun an hour after we have it at London; which is much 
eaſier apprehended by viewing a map of this wy than by 
any definition or explanation whatever, 


7. 1 K 


CONTENTS: 
HE Introduction, containing, I. 4 ee of aftre- 


nomy Page 2 N 
2. The ' doFtrine of the ſphere, 8 
3. ——of the globe, nage 
Geographic problems, n 

theorems, r 
4 A ſhort abridgement of ancient bitery,” . 


And then follows, 4 particular deſeription A the ſeveral bing- 


doms and commonwealths of 8 1 


E WU 0 Pp. E. 


With an epitome of the hiſtory, bene — and remark 
able curioſities of the reſpective nga +9, | IT} 


® F 


In the following order: 
Page | , Page 
Of Europe in general, 85 Eaſt Greenland, 270 
Spain, 69 Weſt Greenland, 281 
Portugal, 88 ] Iceland ifland, "© tbid. 
France, 95 The Faro iſles in general, 282 
Italy, I21 ' Lapland, ibid. 
Switzerland, 145 } Norway, 286 
United Netherlands, 153} Buarrish hee 50305 
Auſtrian and French 16 = 306 
Netherlands. 3 Wales, 442 
Germany, 1701 - lfles of Scotland, 444 
Bohemia, 200 Scotland in general 450 
Hungary, 204 Ireland, 490 
Tranſylvania, 209 Ifle of Man, 502 
Selavonia, . 211 y Turkey in Europe, 505 
3 213 ih rache an fun to 5 
orlachia, 2142 urkey in Europe, 
Pruſſia, ibid. being ſpare of 2 565 ; 
Poland including Li- * ! cient Greece, | 
thuania, 9 The reſt of the European iNands 
Muſcovy, or the Ruſſian 1 are deſcribed with the coun- 
empire in Europe and C 233 tries to which they reſpectively 
Aſia, 11 belong, as thoſe of Spain, 
Sweden, ' France, Italy, the "I 
Denmark in general, 370 f lands, c. | due 


— 


9 


"We ge 
* 


— : 
mr 
* F _ : 


a LY a 2 


—— 


1 1 + 
c EO" _ 
a CY 


BW, CONTENTS 


7. A particular deſcription of the ſeveral kingdoms and comme. 
| wealths of | | 


8 Þ 1 A, 
nz an d of the hiſtory, hh events, and remarks 
* ide, of the reſpective countries, Viz. | . 


Page 
Of Aa in 512 J India beyond th the Ole 8 


germs 


Turkey in 533 y India within the Ganges, 552 
| Terkey i in Europe and Aſia, 515 + The Peninſula within the 
Arabia, 327 Ganges, 359 
Perſia, | 534 x The empire of China, 565 
India in Joy. "Ty 542 J Tartary in Aſia, 5 
The Indian and Oriental ISLANDS. 
| ; Page 
The Ladrone iſtands, Sunra IstanDs. | 
Formoſa, by. id. 5 Borneo, the largeſt —_— 7 
The Philippines, ibid. world, 582 
The Moluccas or Clove ? gz } Sumatra, 58 
. N The And d N ” 
The Ba or Nutme he Andaman and Nico-? f. 
nds, 4 582 bar iſlands did. 
Amboynay ibid.] Ceylon, the richeſt i in the 
Cclebes, or Macafſar, Si- ibid. world, ; 58 
lola and 9 FS The Maldives, 


8. A particular deſcription of the kingdoms and common- 
 wealths of 1 


ea e 


With an epitome of their reſpe ive hiſtories curiofities, & c. 


me A 9 v 


Page 
Africa in general, 586 ; Madagaſcar, 
Egy 587 ; Mauricius, 


Pty 
The ſtates of Barbary, 594 ? Bourbon 


Africa from the Tropic St Helena, 
of Cancer to the Capel 601 ] Aſcenſion, 
of Good Hope. St Matthew, 
Arzican IsLAanDs. pe dry Ones 
Zocatra, . — } Canaries, 
Babelmandei, ' { Madeiras, 


Comora, | wid Azores 


Ouadalu ibid. 
v Lucia, © ibid. ; 


CONTENTS .'w 


gA ke deſcription of the ſeveral kingdom? and 8 


wealths of 

KM E &qT C A,. 
With an epitome of their reſpectiue hiſtories, uria/ities, S. 
BRITISH AMERICA, 


. 


Page 
America in general, 6¹⁰ Penſylvania, 
New Britain, 612 + Maryland, 
Canada, | 614 J Virginia, 
New Scotland, 620 North and South Caro- 
New England, 622 lina, with Georgia, 
New York, 624 Eaft and Welt Florida, 
New Jerſey, 626 

BRITISH AMERICAN ISLANDS. 

: Page Page 
Jamaica 641 f Granada and the Granadines, 647 
Barbadoes | 645 ] Tobago, ibid. 
St Chriſtophers, 646 ! Newfoundland, ibid. 
Antigua, ibid. } Cape Breton, 648 
Nevis and Montſerrat, ibid.; St Johns, ibid. 
Barbuda, ibid. Bermudas, or the Summer ibid. 
Anguilla, ibid. 1 Iſlands, 

Dominica, ibid. 7 Lucay's or s Iſlands, 049 
St Vincent, 647 T Falkland Iflands, 
SPANISH AMERICA. 
Page Page 
New Mexico, including? 6 Spaniſh Iſlands, : 
California, 3" I Cuba 666 
Old Mexico, or New Spain, 652 ] Porto Rico, 668 
| Virgin Iſlands, ibid. 
Span. dominions in 8. America. Trinidad, ibid. 
Terra Firma, 656; ? Margaretta, ibid. 
Peru, ibid. ? Chiloe, ibid. 
Chili, 3 662 Juan Fernandes, | ibid, 


Paraguay, or La Plata 664 ? 


PORTUGUESE AMERICA 
BRASIL, 669 


FRENCH AMERICAN ISLANDS. 
Marti => St Barthol Deſeada "WP 
a nic c me w, , 

k Th [ 674 


* n 


u 


enn 
pur AM ERA 
331 / Page Dutch If: 3 


On the Continent 181 Evſtatia, 
Surinam in South America, 674 Frames | 


DANISH AMERICA. 
Page 


Inna. o of St Thomas, and St Croix, | M7 5 
A general hiſtory of America from its firſt diſcovery to the pre- 

ent time, 67⁸ 
Hiſtory of the Britiſh ſettlements in America, 6588 


Deſcription of the preſent War in North America, 


" " 


NTRODUCTION,.. 
| BEING | * 

x COMPENDIUM. os 
A Sin ON 04M 


1 


5 8 E C T. | I. 
HOUGH in ſome of the more early ages of the world man- 
kind had very fogliſh and confuſed notiens, both of the fi- 
_ Fre of the Earth, and the ſituation and motions of the hea- 
enly Bo 


ies; ſome imagining the Earth to be an immenſe plane, ſup- 
orted like a ſcaffolding, by pillars ; ſome, that it was like a cylinder, 


r drum, &c. 3 and all, that it was immoyeably fixed in one place; yet 


heſe abſurdities ſeem not to have been held by the firſt Fathers of 
ae Aſtronomical and Geographical Sciences. ? 
The moſt ancient theory we have any account of, is that taught 
n Greece by Pythagoras, who flouriſhed about 550 years before 
hriſt. He maintained that the Earth was ſhaped like a globe, and 
noved round the Sun like other planets ; which opinion, as he had 
velled into Egypt and Chaldea, it is probable he received in ſome 
ff theſe places. n $i en | 
The ſeeming contradiction to our ſenſes, however, which this opi- 
ion carried along with it, was probably the cauſe of its being ſoon 
orgot ; and accordingly it lay in oblivion till the year 1530, when 
t was revived and publiſhed to the world by Copernicus, a native of 
'oland, who found many more enemies than friends to his new doc - 
rine. In the 19th century it was embraced and improved by the 
aborious Kepler; and notwithſtanding the anathemas of the Church 
o Rome, who pronounced it a mortal hereſy to ſay that the Earth 
as round, it continued to gain ground, till at laſt it was demon- 
rated and brought to its higheſt perfection by the reſearches of our 
mortal Newton, 3. N 
& | As 


Be l dy | — 
* x TR ©:D UTC TT 0 NN. 
As this opinion, commonly called the Vi Sytem, 1 now 
ſo generally received, that ſcarce any perſon pretend to doubt of, of 
diſpute on the ſubject, we ſhall content ourſelves with giving a gene- 

ral view of it, leaving the knowledge of other Aſtronomical Syltem 
to be gathered from books which treat profeſſedly of that ſcience, 


According to the Newtorian Aſtronomy, the Sun which enlightens 
and warms us is an immenſe globe of fire, no ＋ n 89ojoed 
Engltth mifes itt diameter. Wirt reſpect to us, and all-the planets 
he may be ſaid to remain immoveably and for ever fixed in one place 

- for the Earth and other five bodies, called Planets, continually move 
round him in orbits ſomewhat elliptical, or of an eval figure. The 
magnitudes, revolutions, and diſtances of theſe bodies from the Sun, 
according to the lateſt and beſt obſervations are as follow : 


Next the Bun, but at the diſtance of no leſs than 36;461,848 miley 
revolves the planet Mercury, in diameter about 3000 miles, finiſhing 
his revolution in 87 days, 23 Hours. By reaſon of the vicinity d 
this planet tothe Sun, he is ſeldom ſeen by our naked eye, but ap 
pears very bright and white, when viſible: the ſwiftneſs with whith 

he moves in his orbit is greater than that of any of the other pls 
nets, being no leſs than 1828 Englith miles every minute. 


Next to Mercury, Venus revolves in 224 days 17 hours, at the di- 

- tance of 68,891,486 miles from the Sun, with a velocity of about 

1338 miles in a minute. This planet is of a bright white colour, and 

makes the moſt beautiful appearance of any ſtar in the heavens, know 

by the name of the Morning and Evening Star. Her diameter i 
9339 miles. 2 Wy we £44 why bet hind 4 


At the diſtance of 95,17 3;000 miles from the Sun, the Earth per 
forms its'revolution in one year, conſiſting of 365 days, 5 hots and 
49 minutes, at the rate of 113) miles in a minute, Its. diameter i 
computed'at 7970 miles. 99) een 


Mars comes next in order, at the diſtance of 145,014,128 mils 

from the Sun, and performs his revolution in one year, 424 day 
17 2 with a velocity of about 926 miles in a miguts 
His diameter is about 5400 miles, and his colour à fiery red. 


Jupiter, the largeſt of all the planets, revolves next to Mars, 
the diſtance of 494,990,976 miles from the Sun. His diameter! 
no leſs than 94, ooo miles, and by reaſon of the immenſe (circuit 
takes, though moving at the rate of 484 miles every minutes A 
courſe round the Sun is not finiſhed in leſs than 11 years, $14 da _ 
8 hours. The colour of this planet is likewiſe red, though nt - 

much ſo as Mars; but though Jupiter is much larger than Venus F 
does not make near ſuch a beautiful appearance, by reaſon of WIE . 
| great diſtance from us. | e 


An immenſe way beyond Jupiter, Saturn, the outermoſt of all the 
planets, revolves, at the diſtance of 907,916, 130 miles from the gn 


\ 


* = ﬀ r WV — . 7 


IMNO T! R. O. D U. C | T; 1 0 N. e 2 1 


at the rate of 368 miles every minute, hut by reaſon of bis gre: 
of, . idtance from the Hun, his revolutiqu is not completed in leſs than 29 
gene. ears, 169 days; And 6 hours. diameter is 78,000 miles, and 
em he appears of à white colour. 7 k 


Theſe are all that are called Primary Planets in the language of - 
Aſtronomers ; but beſides theſe, there are others, called Moons, or Se- 
condary Planets, which revolve round the primary ones, accompany- 
ling them in their courſe round the Sun. It is ſuppoſed by ſome Aſtro- 
nomers, that none of the primary planets are without their ſeconda- 
ies, but nothing can be. athrmed with certainty concerning more 
than three of them, viz. the Earth, Jupiter and Saturn. | 

Our Moon bears a greater proportion to the Earth than any one of 
the other ſecondary nds 15070 its primary; being 2180 miles 
in diameter, and revolves at the diſtance of 240,000 miles from the 
Earth. Jupiter is attended by four Moons, and Saturn by five; by 
which they frequently eclipſe one another; and by the eclipſes of Ju- 
piter's Moons the longitude of particular places on the Earth is moſt 
frequently determined. Saturn's Moons would anſwer this purpoſe 
as well, was it not, that by reaſon, of his great diſtance from us, they 
are not ſo eaſily perceivable as thoſe of Jupiter. | 


Concerning theſe two Planets there are two ſingularities obſerved - 
by Aſtronomers, about which various conjectures are formed, name- 
ly, that Jupiter, when viewed through a teleſcope, appears encompaſ- 
ſed with dark ſtreaks, called his Belt 
ſituation with regard to one another; ſometimes appearing to run 
a · croſs his ſurface in parallel lines, ſometimes inclined to one another 
in various angles; ſo that it hath heen ſaid, that more changes hap- 
pen daily en the ſurface of Jupiter, than would happen to this Earth, 
though the ocean and land were to change places every day. The 
particular regarding Saturn is, that he is encompaſſed with a lumi- 
nous ring entirely ſeparated from his body; but for theſe things we 
mult reter our readers to books of Aſtronomy. 


Beſides the motion of the primary planets, round the Sun, they 
have another, round their own axis, as it is called. This motion 
may be underſtood, by ſuppoſing a top to receive a ſmart ſcourge, ſo 
as to make it move round in a circle, while it kept ſpinning all the 
while on its point, or one extremity. of its axis. The circular motion 
would properly enough repreſent that of the Earth, or any other 
planet round the Bun; while the motion round its own axis, would 
repreſent what is called the diurnal rotation of the earth: This diur- 
Lal rotation is performed by our Earth in. 24 hours; by which means, 
all the parts of its ſurſace are alternately-expoſed to, and hid from, 
the light of the Sun, and thus the viciſſitudes of day and night con- 
ſtantly happen, The diurnal rotation of the other, planets, and-of 
the Sun himſelf, is determined by. dark ſpots viſible on their ſurface 
through a good teleſcope, but they by no means keep the ſame peri- 
dds of revolution with our Earth. The Sun revolves in 25 days 6 

urs; Venus, in 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes; Mars in 24 

| A 2 og 8 hours, 


— 


: MAY — * 1 e 


4 ' which continually ſhift their 


. 
T r let _ 70 a 


* T7, . WY 


Z 6 


G 


>} rn o Der oi 
hours, 40 minutes; and i r e, his immmenſe puſſz 
in 9 hours, 56 minutes. Mercury and Saturn, the one,” by rea 
2 - of his nearneſs to the Sun, and the other by his immenie dit 
_ from us, appear altogether luminous, without any dark ſpots onthes 
_ - ſarface, ſo that the times of their diurnal revolution . muſt; renal 
unknown. The Moon revolves on her axis in the ſame time that 
performs her, revolution round the Earth, vz. 29 days, 1 houry 
44 minutes; by which means only one half of her ſurface can ed 
be viſible to us, as ſhe keeps one fide conſtantly towards the Earth 
As the viciſſitudes of day and night are cauſed by the 'diurnalts 
tation of the Earth on its axis, fo the various ſeaſons; and different 
lengths of the day and night are produced by what is called the i 
clination of the Earth's axis to the plane of the Ecliptic. This . 
may have a pretty juſt idea of, by imagining a top ſcourged roun 
in 4 circle, and ſpinning on its axis, not in a perpendicular poſition, 
9 zal inclined to one fide: The annual orbit of the Earth, or the ci 
db in which it moves round the Sun, is called the Ecliptic. Wenn 
2 Io poſe the Heavens interſected or divided into two great Hemiſpheres; 
by this cirele we may alſo ſuppoſe the Earth to move round this plan 
formed by the circular area of the under hemiſphere, onde ever 
year, and turning round its own axis, not in a perpendicular pol. 
tion with reſpect to the plane, but inclined to it in ſuch a-manne 
that its axis might make an angle with the plane, of 23 deg. 29 min 
When we have done this, we . as juſt a notion of the ine linie 
pf the Earth's axis as it is poſſible for us to have. 5 


By reaſon of the axis of the Earth keeping always in the ſame 
lique poſition, the poles, or points round which the Earth turns, ay 
alternately turned towards the Sun, once every year. When 

North Pole is brought towards the Sun, it is conſtantly enlightencs 

and there is perpetual ſun-ſhine for ſeveral months; the places al 
adjacent to the pole have long days and ſhort nights, the South Pole 
being all the while immerſed in darkneſs, and thoſe places which ht 
near it, have ſhort days and long nights. When the Earth is et, 
ly in the middle of its courſe, between the two extremities of its 0 
bit, and neither pole being more enlightened than the other, tl 

days and nights are of an equal length through the whole Earth, 4 
they would always have been, had the axis of the Earth been p 
pendicular to the Ecliptic. , 


The axis of Mars and Jupiter are perpendicular to the planet 
their orbits; ſo that we may ſuppoſe the Seaſons, as well as the leni 

, of the days and nights, to continue conſtantly the fame. The W 
of Venus is inclined 75 degrees, that of the Sun 8 degrees, and® 

- the Moon 2 degrees, 10 minutes, | | 


The Ecliptic is conceived to be divided into 12 equal parts, call 
Signs and each fign into 30 equal parts, called Degrees 3 where?) 
the Ecliptic is divided into, 12 times 39, or 360 degrees. 


© It ſhould be obſerved, that Mathematicians ſuppoſe the eicem 
* ference of every circle to be diyided into 360 equal yup = 
X » 1 egre / 


m— — wt OO wIw_X © —_— 


* vo 9 * 


1 N OD fan + 
« Degrees 3 each degree to be divided into 60 equal parts, called M- 


hy 


and other parts, they meaſure the motions, diſtances, and mag- 
£ nitudes of the heavenly bodies. 


the Zodiac; whereof the breadth is about 16 degrees; that is, a- 


the Zodiac are contained the Heliocentric Circles, or orbits; of all 
the planets : Conſequently the motions of the planets are all 'confi- 
ned within the limits of the Zodiac: and the planets themſelves will 
always be found in one or more of the Zodiacal Conſtellations, of 
which the following are the names and marks: f — 


Aries. Taurus. Geminl. Cancer. Les Virgos 
* .J. Phe -u @. -., &,- "0 
Libra. Scorpio. Sagittarius. Capricornus. Aquarius. Piſces. 

a m =; .. 3 


The plane of the Ecliptic divides the Heavens into tuo equal | por- 
tions, one called the Northern Half, and the other the Southern Half: 


and called the Celeſtial Sphere, whereon the Stars appear to be fixed, 
ſo the Northern Half is called the Northern Hemiſphere, and the 
Southern Half the Southern Hemiſphere. = 


Thoſe two- points in the Heavens, which are equally diftant from 
the Northern Hemiſphere is called the North. Pole of the Eeliptic; and 


It ſhould be known, that every circle which divides the Sphere 


* circumference of any Great Circle, are called the poles of that 
great circle: So that the diſtance between a great circle and its 
pale is 90 degrees. Alſo, that all the circles which can be deſcri- 
* bed round any pole, between it and its great circle, are called 
Small Circles, or Leſer Circles, of the Sphere. Theſe circles are 
parallel to one another, and to the great circle, and are gradually 
* leſs and leſs as they are farther from the great circle, or approach 
the pole; where they are finally diminiſhed to a point. | 


Aſtronomers compare the inclinations of the Orbits of the Planets- 
with the Ecliptic : For they are above the plane of the Earth's or- 
bit in one half of their revolution, and below that plane in the other 
half: Now a Planet in moving from above the Earth's orbit, to be- 
low it, muſt croſs the Eeliptie, and at that time it is in the plane of 
the Ecliptic ; and this muſt happen to the Planet twice in every pe- 


* TY LI 2 23 4 FR 0 * = 


« yutes ; and each minute into 60 equal parts, called Secondr g and 


The Eclintic is the middle line-of that ſpace in che heavens. called 
bout 8 degrees on each ſide of the Ecliptic: Withia this breadth of 


And as the Heavens appear to the view to be like a concave; globe, 


every part of the Ecliptic, are called the Poles of the Ecliptic ; that in 
that in the Southern Hemiſphere is called the South Pole of the Ecliptic. ' 


into two equal parts is called a Great Circle; and thoſe, two 
points in the Heavens which are equally diſtantfrom all parts of the 


* riodical 


e revolution, at the interval of half a revolution 


that the orbits of the Planets are ſcmewhat longer one way than + 


75 tricity. 


is called mom Aphelion, or upper Apfir and the point where nearell} 


Perilelian diflance : The line drawn through the Sun from 


1 N T R O DUCT TON. 


s 


rom wn 
another. 
— The points where the orbits of the Planets croſs the Eelipticn 
called the Nodes. A ſtraight line drawn acroſs the plane of the 
Eeliptic, joining the two nodes, is called the Line of the | Nodes 
which in every Planet paſſes through the Sun. But the — 
3 Planets are in a e ee 


1 enn che motion of an any Planes 
remark two circumſtances z the firſt, that the ſame Planet <- not 
appear of the fame ſize in every part of its orbit; ſecondly, it wil 


move' quicker in ſome parts of the orbit than it does in other-parts, 
The alteration in ſize 'muſt- ariſe from an alteration in diſtance; 


and the. Planet muſt be fartheſt from the Sun when. it appears leak, 


and neareſt to the Sun when it appears greateſt: Conſequently the 


Sun is not placed in the centre of the orbit; and obſervations ;ſhey 


nother; that is, they are of an (oval or) elliptical form, as alteady 
obſerved P- 2. with the Sun placed at a little diſtance from the middle 
in a point called the Focus : And this tance is called —— 


The point of the orb where the Planet. is fartheſt from the Sun, 


r EE. - £ASL 


is called the Perihe/ion, or lower Apſts. 
When the Planet is in the midway of its courſe between Aphel 
and Perihelion, it is faid to be at its mean diffance. 
The eccentricity added to the mean diſtance gives the — 
tance; and the eccentricity. ſubtracted fromthe mean diſtance pra 


| >, 


to Perihelion is called the line of the Apfpider.. 
When the Planet is in Aphelion, it moves ſloweſt ; in Peribekon, 


quickeſt : Its motion is increaſing from Aphelion to Perihelion, gud 
decreaſing from Perihelion to Aphelion. . ; 


Although the Sun is in the plane of each of the Planets” "rbits 
and thoſe orbits are Ellipſes of different fizes ; it muſt be obſerved 
that the eccentricities of the orbits are different from one another; 
and conſequently the middle points of their orbits do not all fall un 
the fame place; but the Sun is in the focus of all the orbits of tle 
primary Planets. 


MOONS, os SECONDARY PLANETS: 


A Secondary Planet, or Moon, revolves round its primary Plane 
which it reſpeQs as the centre of its courſe, in a direction alſo from 


right to left in the ſolar ſyſtem, and is with a primary Planet 
round the Sun. 


The Orbit of a Moon is alſo an Ellipſis, having its primary ; Pl 
net in a Foeus : The plane of the orbit is inclined to the plane of 5 
primary Planet, and cuts in two oppoſite points, called Noder 3 ® * 


* 


#] 


9 : 2 — $ 4 ' 
” | | | | 


INTRODUCTION. P 
ir . Conſequent- 
y wheh che Moon paſſes through the Nodes, ſhe is in the plane of _ 
| primary Planet. 903. 27167 15040 107 200142 et eee Si 7 


# *Y 
4+ & ' 


* 


In each revolution of à Moon round its primary, it muſt he once 
between the Planet and the Sun, and ſo” nearer to the Sun; and 
once beyond the planet from the Sun, and fo farther from the Sun 3 
heſe fituations of a Moon, in reſpect to its Planet and the Sun, are 
alled Conjundtions. "within the Planet's orbit, is called the 
zſerior Conjunction z and that without the Planet's orbit, is called 
be Superior Conjunction of the Moon. r 

r ECLIPSES. en 
At the time of either Conjunction, if the Moon ſhould then be in 
xr near one of the nodes of her orbit, an Eclipſe may happen ; that 
is, the light of the Sun may be hid either from the Planer, or from 
be Moon: If the Moon ſhould be between the Sun and Planet, 
ere may happen an Eclipſe of the Sun; that is, the Sun's light 
ay for ſome time be hindered from coming to ſome 'parts of the 
Planet : And if the Planet ſhould be between the Sun and the 
Moon, there may be an Eclipſe of the Moon; that is, the Suns 
light may for ſome time be prevented from falling on the Moon: 
Both of theſe caſes ſhew, that the Moon ſhines by no other light be- 
fides what it receives from the Sun; and, like a lookin -glaſs, refleQ- 
ing thee Zh upon the Planet, ſeems as if it was of tel a lami- 
nous body. vpn git 5p. 13 gets tent 


The Planets arid their Moons being opaque or dark bodies, they 
muſt always caſt a ſhadow behind them from the light of the Sun ; 
ad the body being in motion, the Thadow muſt be alfo in motion : 
and this ſhadow, or a part thereof falling on a Planet, all the ſpace 
on the Planet along which the ſhadow moves, will be deprived of 
the Sun's rays while the ſhadow remains there: Theſe are circum- 
ſtances that are confirmed at every. viſible Eclipſe which happens | 
between the Syn, the Earth, and the Moon; and it is natural to con- 4 
clude the like of the other planets; that every one whoſe ſhadow will 
reach anether, will occaſion an Eclipſe. - Now obſeryations demon- 
irate, that the ſhadow of no Primary Planet reaches another: For 
both Mercury and Venus which move between, the Sun and Earth, 
have been obſerved to paſs over the face of the Sun, like a, round 
black ſpot. Conſequently the Sun is immenſely larger than either of 
thoſe Planets ; and their ſhadows muſt taper in a conical form from 
theſe Planets to a point, at a conſiderable diſtance ſhort of the Earth's 


_ orbit. Alſo the ſhadow of the Earth ends in a point, long before 

* it reaches the Planet Mars, as he is never obſcured by the » at 
a conjunction even when Mars is paſſing through a node: And the 
like is to be underſtood of the other Planets. | 

* That the Earth and its Moon are globular bodies is evident from 

we” the obſervations made on Eclipſes; for. the obſcured or darkened 

es always bounded by a circular curve. Now that body whoſe 


ow 


* 


8 reer OD: 
ſhadow is terminated by a Circle, muſt itſelf be alſo terminated hy 
Cirelez/and in Eclipſes, which are viſible ſometimes to one part gu 
of the ſometimes to other parts, the obſcured portion 
the Sun or Moon is always bounded by a circular curve: Conſequents 
ly, whatſoever part of the Earth or its Moon is turned towards the 
Sun, the ſhadows are always of a coniform figure; therefore the 
bodies which projet thoſe gures muſt be gebn. 
NEW FULL.MOONS.... 
© When the Moon is in her inferior conjunction, or in a Poſition 
neareſt to the Sun, her enlightened part, being on that ſide” next 
the Sun, is turned quite away from the Earth, and ſhe cannot then 
be ſeen from the ſuperior Planet ; but this can happen only for two 
or three days together; for as the Moon is in conſtant motion fron 
Welt to Eaſt, ſhe will ſoon get paſt this conjunction, called the New 
Moon, and. begin to ſhew a ſmall part of her enlightened ſurface, and 
every day more and more; appearing firſt like a Creſcent, thena 
half Hy 7/4 at which time ſhe is faid to be in one of her Quads 
tures; and fo on, ſhewing mort and more of her enlightened.iace 
until: ſhe comes to her ſuperior conjunction, when, ſhe ſhews ha 
whole face, and is then called Full Moon: Afterwards the enlights 
ened part decreaſes every day; when it becomes half a Moch, the 
is in her other Quadrature ; from thence, her face diminiſhes tow 
Creſcent,” and ſo on till her illumined face diſappears, to become 
New Moon again. 7 _ PP | 
Theſe different appearances of the Moon are called her Phaſh; 
and the time ſhe takes to exhibit all of them, is called her H 
Revalution,' and takes up near a month: So that during a re 
the time of one revolution of the Earth in its orbit, round the Sun; 
the Moon will have made ſomewhat more than 12 revolutions round 


Or Tux COMETS AND FIXED STARS. 

Hitherto we have only conſidered ſuch' bodies as may be ſald u 
have ſome connection with us, by moving round our Sun, a 
receiving light and heat from him in the ſame manner thatour ie 
Earth does. The Six Planets, with their Secondaries, and the fe 
round which they move, are called the Solar Syſſem; but, thong 
theſe are all the bodies that appear permanently to belong de 
Syſtem, there are others which appear and diſappear occationally; 
theſe are called Comets, and are thought by Aſtronomers to be Flv 
nets like the others, only that they move in orbits prodigioully 
centric, and conſequently are a very long time in performing ther; 


Though ſome of the Antients had more juſt notions of them I 
the opinion having prevailed, that they were only Meteors genes 
ted in the air, like to thoſe we ſee in it every night, and in & fer- 
moments vaniſhing, no care was taken to obſerve or record rf. 
phænomena accurately, till of late: hence this part of Aſtronomy :: 
is very imperſect. Sir Iſaac Newton computed the heat of the * 


Fits 


- — 5x » , P —_ * - . 
C270 92 * $ * N nd * ad * . O W * i het \ q - | K * 1 * o 
K _ 939 * 4 * | * * n 
os Te *u& 4 * \ 
: 0 3 , — N 0 0 — + "op . * 
4 p . As 


| LN. T R ODU C T 1 0 N. 9 


at appeared in the year 1080, when neareſt the Sun, to be 
oo times hotter than red-hot iron; and that being thus heated, it 
uſt retain its heat till it comes round again, although its period 
ould be more than 20,000 years; and it is computed to be. only 
2c. It is believed that there are at leaſt 21 Comets belonging to 1 

ur Syſtem, moving in all manner of directions; and all thoſe which 

ave been obſerved, have moved through the ethereal regions and 

ke orbits of the | Planets, without ſuffering the leaſt ſenſible reſiſt- 1 


ace in their motions ; Which ſufficiently proves that the Planets do 

Wot move in ſolid orbs. Of all the Comets the periods of three only 
Tc known with any degree of certainty, being ſound to return at 
ccrvals of 75, 129, and 575 years; and of theſe, that which ap- 


ared in 1680. is the moſt. remarkable. This Comet, at its great - 
diſtance, is about 11 thouſand 200 millions of miles from the 

un, while its leaſt diſtance from the centre of the Sun is about 

go thouſand miles; within leſs than one third part of the Sun's 
midiameter from his ſurface. In that part of its orbit which is 

earelt to the Sun, it Aies with the amazing velocity of 880,000 - 

les in an hour; and the Sun, as ſeen from it, appears 10@ degrees 

} breadth, conſequently 40,000 times as large as he appears to us. 


\ hu he aſtoniſhing, diſtance that this Comet runs out into empty ſpace, | 
ight- aturally ſuggeſts to our imagination, the vaſt diſtance between our 
„ the un, and the neareſt of the Fixed Stars, of whoſe attractions all the 


mets mult keep clear, te return periodically and go, round the 


0 

2 un. Dr Halley, to whom every part of Aſtronomy, but this in a 
wrticular manner, is highly mdebted, has joined his labours to the 

; aft eat Sir Iſaac Newton on this ſubject. , 

odica . 1 

er The Fixed Stars ars diſtinguiſned by the naked eye from the Pla- 

Sun: ts, by being leſs bright and luminous, and by continually exhibi- 


ng that appearance which we call the twinkling of the Stars, which 
e Planets never do. This ariſes from their being ſo extremely 
pall, that the interpoſition of the. leaſt body, of which there are 
any conſtantly floating in the air, deprives us of the ſight of them; 
en the interpoſed body changes its place, we again fee the Star, 
ad this ſucceſſion being perpetual, occaſions the twinkling. But a 
bore remarkable property of the Fixed Stars, and that from which 


ory have obtained their name, is their never changing their ſitua- 
6 DU on, with regard to each other, as the Planets, from what we have 
jou" ready ſaid, muſt evidently be always changing theirs. The Stars 
ea bc are neareſt to us ſeem largeſt, and are therefore called of the 


it magnitude, Thoſe of the ſecond magnitude appear leſs, being 
a greater diſtance; and ſo proceeding on to the ſixth magnitude, 
ich include all the Fixed Stars which are viſible without a tele - 
"pe. As to their number, though in a clear Winter's night with- , 
ut moon-ſhine they ſeem to be innumerable, which is owing to 
ir ſtrong ſparkling, and our looking at them in a confuſed man- 
er, yet when the whole firmament is divided, as it has been done 


ener the Ancients, into Signs and Conſtellations, the number that can 
ae {zen at a time by the bare eye is not above a thouſand, Since 
cher it atroduction of teleſcopes indeed, the number of the Fixed Stars 
Wag ven juan conſidered as immenſe ; becauſe the greater perfec. . 
come l tion 


— — — — a oo 
L ts *- 


—_— 


_ af - ry 
* 4 1 4 =_ * v k 
2 b 
— > IM _ 1 
— — — GO c 
* We” i 9 * 
. S % = 


_ of 2 28 * 
——— tings... -_- 


x 


"P of * 
5 N W 
LL 


© HUNT RK ODU T 1 O N. 


— * 
- 
- 


therto appeured. The immenſe diſtance of the Fixed Stars from our 


the Star, than it ſeemed to be when the Earth was at the moſt diſtant 


volving round it, as our Sun has the Earth and other Planets re 


miles an hcur, would not reach us in 700,000 years. 


any brightneſs ſufficient to make them - viſible © to us: From whenct 


_ the opinion, except the analogical reaſoning juſt now mentioned. 


CY . 
Ali a a 


* P 4 Y 1 ” * 4 
\ 7 «7? : C * . C 
1 Y 5 - 1 * > CL T2 
4 * 4th * y 5 _ * R * „ F 4 1 , . * " » / 16 - * , N — 7 . * 
% . OR. Tx RY : N _ 7. © 1 * 7 0 . 
F - 4 - 1 
- 


tion we arrive at in our glaſſes, the more Stars always appear to m 
Mr Flamſtead, Royal Aſtronomer at Greenwich, has given us à 
ralogue of about 3000 ſtars, which is the moſt eompleat that has hy 


earth, and one another, is of all eonſiderations the moſt proper fo 
railing our ideas of the works of God. For notwithitanding the 
' tx xtent of the Earth's orbit or path (which is at leaſt 162 mil, 
ions of miles in diameter) round the Sun, the diſtance of a Fixed 
Star is not ſenfibly affected by it; ſo that the Star does not appear to 
be any nearer us when the Earth is in that part of its orbit nearel 


part of its orbit, or 162 millions of miles further removed from the 
{ame Star. The Star neareſt us, and conſequently the biggeſt in ap- 
pearance, is the Dog-Star, or Sirius. Modern diſcoveries make it 
probable that each of theſe Fixed Stars is a Sun, having worlds re 


volviag round him. Now the Dog-Star appears 27,000 times les 
than the Sun, and as the diſtance of the Stars mult be greater in pro- 
portion as they ſeem leſs, Mathematicians have computed the diſtance 
of Sirius from us to be two billions, and two hundred thonfand mi 
lions of miles The motion of light therefore, which, though © 
quick as to be commonly thought inſtantaneeus, takes up more tim 
in travelling from the Stars to us, than we do in making # Welt · Ia 
dia voyage. A ſound would not arrive to us from thence in 50,000 
years; which, next to light, is conſidered as the quickeſt body 
are acquainted with. And a cannon-ball flying at the rate of 400 


The Stars, being at ſuch immenſe diſtanees from the Sun, cannot 
poſſibly receive from him ſo ſtrong a light as they ſeem to have; nor 


Aitronomers conclude, that they are all Suns of the ſame nature with 
ours, and having Planets in like manner moving round them; fe 
that the Univerſe, or whole of God's material creation, is Jooked 
upon to conſiſt of a great number of Solar Syſtems reſembling ours 
each of the Planets of which are ſuppoſed to be filled with living 
inhabitants of different ſpecies ; it appearing abſurd to them to think 
that God ſhould create ſo many vaſt bodies to no purpoſe at all. I 
muſt be obſerved however, that the beſt teleſcopes can diſcover none 
of the ſuppoſed Pianets of the Fixed Stars, nor is there any 


0? 


ar: to u 
us a e 
has hi 
"Om our 
oper for 
ing the 
62 mil, 
a Fixed 
pear to 
nearel 
diſtam 
om the 
t in ap- 
make it 
rds re- 
Nets re- 
nes leis 


- * 


__—_ 


rn et INST N ne 


10 * P 9 | 
We 
13 4 1 


1 
a « . 1:3 , as 11, 
„* 74 , = 
1 9 - . j 
: 917 4.5 | 
| 2 


4 + » 
, l 
- 
©] - MIR 

- - #4 


” % 


WY ww 


dine Gs 


2 65 


"BY "RY ; 
—_—_— 
P wee or ooo. 82 7 ov, YT 


» 
2 


* 


1 


* 
— 
n 


* 
* an "> 5, 
s -3 
E vw . 
© 4 | 
— 2 
* ” 


— 


— — — — — 


„% ˙—˙— 1iwüĩ—ʃ . — 


0 2 
— 


= — * * 
ä wx .caeer ers wy O_ 
A — a a 


EB ONLY 


— 


- $ . 
NNO Herres. 
— © : . . 0 * * — 
_ "ot 7 6 as +4 o Y « Of * — Ae * * ” * * — 1 75 , "44 * & 
ſr youu? * 2 f \ 4+ TP - 4 9 
— g 1 ad R * 


—_ rue” 5 3+ 366? TD 21 
. * . . 
r e of) e e e 
7 " ' 1 
7 12.49 [ : N * $ "+ ks ; : £2 * , * en : 


5 , y — 
Th Is * \ 


a7 7 di> + C3 boo » 3s b Net. "4s 7: : 23. +x 4 Th 
Of the Do RI NE of the SPHERE, 
1 #3 * g 1 . " TL * | ; Jas. © V : , 


N the former ſection we have conſidered. only the ?rue mations of | 
N the celeſtial bodies, withont taking any notice of their apparent 
nes, The latter, however, are What we mult chiefly conſider ; as 
having the greateſt; connection with the ſubje& of Geography, being 
adeed the only foundation of it. A YO 

y ? THT err ; 5 | = Y | 
That the Reader may be able to form ſome tolerable notion of 
his ſubject, it will be neceſſary to keep in remembrance what was 
aken notice of in the laſt ſection, concerning the annual turning of 
the Poles to and from the Sun; as upon this motion of the Earth 
depends the apparent annual motion of the Sun round it, If this is 
attended to, it will eaſily be underſtood, that thoſe parts of the 
arth which lye directly in the middle between the two Poles, muſt 
have the Sun exactly perpendicular above them at the time when 
the Earth is in the middle of its courſe, between the two apſides of 
ts orbit. Was the apparent courſe of the Sun then to be de- 
ineated on the earth, or was a line to be drawn through all thoſe 
places to which the Sun is perpendicular at noon, it would form a 
irele going quite round the earth. Aſtronomers and Geographers 
ſuppoſe ſuch a cirele as this to have an exiſtence, and by it determine 
the Latitude of places on the earth. This circle they call the E- 
puator ; and whatever part af the world has the Sun directly per- 
pendicufar to it at the time the Earth is in the above - mentioned part 
pt its orbit, is {aid to be directly under the Eguater, or the Line, 
nd to have no Latitude, either North or South. As the 
Earth proceeds in its annual courſe round the Sun, the perpendicu- 
ar direction of the Sun towards the Earth is perpetually changing. 
For example, If the Sun, at mid-day, is perpendicular to any ſpot 
df the Earth, when the Earth is in the middle of its orbit, between 
he two apſides, he will not be exactly perpendicular above that 
lace ſome days after; becauſe the Earth having moved South, We 
hall ſuppoſe, the Sun will ſeem to have moved North. | 


* —— 


N p11 1 —— MF. 4 1 
Mee 


$ 


_— 


As the Earth proceeds in its. courſe Sonthward, the San ſeems to 
get farther and farther North; becoming perpendicular to places 
conſiderably diſtant from thoſe to which he was ſo at the time firtt a 
nentioned; and will continue to do ſo, till the Earth arrives at the 
Southern extremity of its orbit: Then the Sun will ſeem to re- 
turn gradually Southward, becoming perpendicular at mid-day ta 
U the places Northward of the Equator, to which he bas already 
deen ſo; and then, as the Earth advances Northward, he will ſcem 
gradually to move Southward, until he becomes perpendicular to 
Places conſiderably South of the Equator. His apparent motion 
Ba Southward. 


ns $ 
_ * — 3 SOA a Gm » — ACT _ 
* 
- ” 
* 


h I TAO DVe T1 0 rx 


ry low in the South, and have their Winter; which is preciſely 


ern Apfis. 


Southward in this manner, continues as long as the Earth moves wi 
wards the Northern Apſis of its orbit ; and at that time the inly 
bitants that lye near the North Pole of the Earth, ſee the Sun 


caſe with the Southern inhabitants when the Earth is at the Seu 


Was a line to be drawn through all thoſe parts of the worldy 
which the Sun is directly perpendicular, once or twice through th 
year, it would form a circle quite round the Earth, cutting the Þ 
quator at an angle of 23 1-half degrees. This circle is Meng 
delineated on the Terreſtrial Globes, and called the Ectiptic, as be 
ing an exact repreſentation of the Sun's viſible courſe in the heavens 
Circles drawn through thoſe points of the Ecliptic farthelt dillan 
from the Equator, mark ont the boundaries of the Sun's motic 
Southward or Northward, and are called Trepics of Cancer and Os 
pricorn; that of Cancer being the boundary of the Sun's "court 
Northward, and Capricorn of his journey Southward. © 


The Polar Circles are ſuppoſed to be formed by the Poles of th 
Ecliptic, or the motion of two points go degrees diftant from th 
plane of that circle, They are repreſented on the Terreſtrial Clok 
by circles drawn at 23 1-haltf degrees from either Pole. The North 
ern is called the rich, becauſe the North Pole is near the Cone 
lation of the Bear; the Southern, the Antarctict, becauſe oppolit 
to the former. .And theſe are the four leſſer circles. 


Beſide theſe ten circles now deſcribed, which are always gram 
on the Globe, there are ſeveral others, which are only ſuppoſed 
be drawn on it. Theſe will be explained as they become necellary 
Jeſt the Reader ſhould be diſguſted with too many definitions at Ul 
ſame time, without ſeeing the purpoſe tor which they ſerve. 


The points where the Equator, or Equinoctial Line and Eclipit 
cut one another, are called the Equinsdial Points; and a circle gram 
through theſe Points and the Poles of the World, is called the Za 
noctial Colure; as one drawn through the Points where the EH 
and "Tropics touch one another is called the Sitia Colure; ail 
circles drawn through the Poles of the World, and all parts of % 
are called Meridians, becauſe they ſhew what places of the earth 
have mid-day at the ſame time. Though theſe laſt are innumerabs 
they are only marked on the Globes at every 15 degrees dillance 


Taz HORIZON. 


A Spectator ſtanding on the ſurface of the Earth can fee'on 
that half of the Heavens which ſeems to be above him, the othet 
half being hid by the Earth beneath him: now if the apparent plan 
or flat, which he Rands on, was conceived to be extended till it ms 
the Heavens, it would there be bounded, apparently, by a ren 
circle, called the Hertz an, which divides the vitible, from the a 
lizte Hemilphere, . Ti 


1 N TAK ODU T Io 4x 
That point of the viſible Hemifphere in che Heavens,” direly 
,ver the head of the Spectator, is called the Zul; and the point 
of the inviſible Hemiſphere, _ oppoſite, is called rhe V- 
fr ; ſo that the Zenith ang Nadir are the Poles of che Hotizon, and 
re each go degrees diſtant from it; 00 ITT Os oY | 
Great circles paſſing through the Zeuith and" Nadir, cut the Ho- 
ion perpendicularly,” and are called Azbmath Circles, 6 Vertical 
Circles ; and may be conceived to pals mo any point in the 
eavens: on theſe vertical circles are reckoned the attirules bf rhe 
heavenly objects; that is, the number of degrees the objet i above 
he Horizon, counted on a vertical circle paſling through the db- 
dect. Alſo, on theſe vertical circles,” are reckbmed the Zenith A 
of the Sun or Stars; that is, how many degrees the object is he- 
low the Zenith, or 5-drttant rom the Zenith: and on theſe Arm 
uth circles is alſo reckoned the depreſſion of an object below the 
| | KG | 


Horizon. * 


Circles conceived to be parallel to the Horizon, between it and 
the Pole, or Zenith, are called Parallels of Altitude; every part of 
any one of theſe circles having the ſame altitude, or the fame Ze- 
ith diſtance. | py wn 
Every point on the ſurface of the Earth for of any planet) has 
its own Horizon, Zenith and Nadir; and conſequently, while a per- 
Jon is travelling, he is conſtantly changing his Horizon, and atevery 


moment of motion, cames under'a new Zem 


24 
9 


The Horizon is, by mariners, ſuppoſed to be divided into 32 
qual parts, which are called Rhontbs, or Points of the Compaſs ; thro? 
theſe points vertical circles are ſuppoſed to pats ; that circle which 
goes through the North and South Poles of the” World, or Points of 
the Horizon, is the ſame with the Meridian; and that which cuts 
the Meridian perperidicula-ly; aud paſſes through the Eaſt and Weſt 
points of the Horizon, is called the Prime Vertical. The Eaft, 
tm North, and South points of the compaſs are called Cardiual 
O1Nts, , | 
The Horizon is one of the moſt confiderable circles noted by A- 
ſtronomers; tor to this circle, which is the only one that really pre- 
ſents itſelt to our ſenſes, many of the celeſtial motions are referred; 
Juch as the riſing and. ſetting of the heayenly bodies; and thereby, 
with regard to the Sun, the Horizon is the termination of day and 
night; tor when the Sun begins to appear at one fide of the Hori 
zon, the day begins; and when he ditappears towards the oppoſite 
1d! of the Horizon, the day ends, and the pi;zht begins: alfo the 
heavenſy objects, when they begin to appear at the Horizon, are 
ud to be riting ; and when they begin to diſappear at the Horizon, 
are ſaid to be letting. | | 


The Earth by its diurnal rotation from Weſt to Eaſt carries the 
Novizon of any particular place along with it; ſo that the ring of 
the dun and Stars on the Eaftern fidz, and their progrefhve increaſe 
bf altitude till they come on the Meridian; and their decreaſe of al- 
fe mw. 


eule atter wards till they fet on the Weſtern {ide ; ſeem to à Tpec- 
Lator 


s 
OA 


\ 


Go a nad aaa 
"INTRODUCTION. 
tator on the earth, as if himſelf was at reſt in the centre of his 
rison, and the Heavens were rolling round him on the Axis of tht 
World, from. Eaſt to Weſt : this apparent motion of the geh 

re, or (as it is called by ſome) of the Primam Mobile, is wha 

s deen generally received as the real motion of the Heavens: hy 
was it ſo, the Stars near the Equinoctial muſt move at the rated 
about five millions of miles in a minute of time, which is a.motiod 
ſo valtly rapid, as to ſufficiently convince the abſurdity of ſuch q 
nion: however, tis uſual, even for Aſtronomers, to ſpeak of ts 
_ diurnal motion of the. Sun and Stars, becauſe the phenomena, att 
| the calculations relating to them, are juſt the ſame, whether yl 
Earth or the Heavens be ſuppoſed to have the diurnal rotation. 


,—# , ! 1 „ 


IE" "IR as 1 * __ A. „* 4 1 


— — I * 
ww Toy” 1 r — y— W 6 WW ** 


s E e r. m. | 
The DocTRINE of the GLOBE. 


the Doctrine of the Globe, is meant the repreſentation of th 
LI different places and countries on the face of the earth, u 
an Artificial Globe or Ball. Though in ſpeaking of the Earth, 
long with the other Planets, it was ſufficient to conſider it as a pls 
iced or | arg body; yet it has been diſcovered, that this 1s us 
its true figure, and that the Earth, though nearly a Sphere or Bal 
is not pertectiy ſo. This matter occaſioned great diſpute between ih 
philoſophers of the laſt age, among whom Sir Iſaac Newton and 
Caſſini, a French Aſtronomer, were the heads cf two different pas 
ties. Sir Iſaae demonſtrated from mechanical principles, that tit 
Earth was an oblate Sphere, or that it was flatted at the Poles d 
North and South Points, and jutted out towards the Equater; # 
that a line drawn through the centre of the Earth, and paſſing ths 
the Poles, which is called a Diameter, would not be ſo long at 
line drawn through the fame centre, and paſſing through the Za 
and Welt Points. The French Philoſopher aſſerted quite the contra 
ry: But the matter was put to a trial by the French King in 1738 
who ſent out a company of Philoſophers towards the North Tok 
and likewiſe towards the Eqnator, in order to meaſure a degith 
or the three hundred and ſixtieth part of a great circle in theſt d 
ferent parts; and from their report, the opinion of Sir Iſaac New 
ton was confirmed beyond diſpute. Since that time, therefore, tt 
Earth has always been conſidered as mere flat towards the, Fols 
than towards the Equator. The reaſon of this figure may be ealif 
underitood, if the Reader fully comprehends what we formerly 9b 
ſerved with regard to the Earth's motion, For if we fix à ball 
clay on a ſpindle, and whirl it round, we ſhall find that it will j#f 
out or project towards the middle, and flatten towards the le, 
Now this is exactly the caſe with regard to our Earth, ouly th 
its axis, repreſented by the ſpindle, is imaginary. But though W 
Earth be not perfectly ſpherical, the difference irom that figure 
J ſmall, that it may be repreſented by a Globe or Ball, without 
4cniible error. | | We 


* TY 4 * TH * * * * 9 g 4 


* 


CNTR OCD U-CCP:1.-0 N. is 
We have already mentioned the diameter of the Globe according 
the belt obſervations : 80 that its cireumference is 25, o38 Eng 
les. This circumference is conceived, for the conveniency of meaſu- 
to be divided into three hundred and fixty parts or degrees, 
degree containing fixty Geographical miles, or fixty- nine Eng- b 
miles and a half. "Theſe degrees are in the ſame manner con- 
ved to be divided each into ſixty minutes. * | 


Axis Aub POLES OF THE Eartn.] The Axis of the Earth is that 
aginary line paſſing through its centre, on which it is ſuppoſed to 
round once in twenty-four hours. The extreme points of this 
e are called the Poles of the Earth; one in the North, and the 
der in the South, which are exactly under the two points of the 
avens called the North and South Poles. The knowledge of theſe. 
les is of great uſe to the Geographer, in determining the diſtance” 
d fituation of places; for the Poles mark, as it were, the ends of 
Earth, which is divided in the middle by the Equator ; ſo that } 
nearer one approaches to the Poles, the farther he removes from ; 
Equator, and contrariwiſe, in removing from the Poles you ap- 
dach the Equator, | . 


Cmerks or THE Crone.) Theſe are commonly divided into the 
ater and leſſer. A great circle is that whoſe plane paſſes thro” 
centre of the earth, and divides it into two equal parts or he- 
ſpheres. A leſſer circle is that which, being parallel to a greater, 
not paſs through the centre of the earth, nor divide it into' two 
val parts. The greater circles are fix in number, the leſſer only 


Equarox.] The firſt great circle we ſhall ſpeak of is the Equa- 
„which we have had occaſion to hint at already. It iis called 
etimes the Equinoctial, | becauſe of the equality of the days and 
phts when the Sun is perpendicular to it ; and by Navigators it 
alſo called the Line, becauſe, according to their rude notions, 
believe it to be a great line drawn upon the fea from Eaſt to 
elt, dividing the rk into the Northern and Southern Hemi- 
eres, and which they were actually to paſs in failing from the one 
o the other, The Poles of this Circle are the ſame with thoſe of 
World. It pafſes through the Eaſt and Weſt points of the World, 
d, as has been already mentioned, divides it into the Northern 
d Southern Hemiſpheres. It is divided into three hundred and 
ty degrees, the uſe of which will ſoon appear. | 


Horizon. ] This great circle is repreſented by a broad circular 
ce of wood, encompaſſing the Globe, and dividing it into the up- 
rand lower hemiſpheres. Geographers very properly, diſtinguith 
e Horizon into the Senſible and Rational. The firſt may be con- 
red to be made by any great plane on the ſurface of the ſea, 
ch ſeems to divide the heavens into two hemiſpheres, the one a- 
de, the other below the level of the earth. This circle deter- 
Err rifing or ſetting of the Sun and Stars, in any particular 
ee; tor whea they begin to appear above the Eaſtern edge, we 

| © lay 


— 
ee * Eads 11 - 0 * 
* _ = N 
%. * 

2 p — 

—— 22a. —_— * 

8 ——— . . — 
— 


. 5 . — s 
- —_— a > pI 2 — — 


* 
; 8 4 R v {op ae + alle... | 5 MA. \ 
a LSE N rn a * "35 2 * N . : amn I A, G 4 - 
NS ani ee BD eat a Mics ks 
Fab py * 1 
= - 


fay 
e appears then that each place has its own ſenſiblg 


. meridigs or mid-day, and then the Sun has its greateſt altitude i 


 QuanranT or ALTITUDE,] In order to ſupply the place of th 
of braſs, ſcrewed on the brazen Meridian, which contains 90 


of which the diſtances and bearings of places are meaſured withol 


' Tour: d the axis of the Globe, 


point. Thus after it was diſcovered, that the Equator divided! 


divided into five portions, and conſequently that che places on it ; 


w# 2 * * 1 
. \ . ' _—_ * eee 2 9 


1 Nr RroD U cor; 1 0 N. 
they riſe; and when they go beneath the Weſtern, n ſaß 


n. The other, Horizon, called the Rational, encompaties 
Globe exactly in the middle. Its Poles. (that is two points ing 
Axis, each ninety degrees diſtant from its Plane, thoſe -of 
1 are) are called the Zenith and Nadir: the firſt exactly aba 
our heads, and the other directly under our feet, The broad 
en'circle, which repreſents it on the Globe, has ſeveral circles dr 
upon it 3 of theſe the ingermolt is chat exhibiting the number 
degrees of the twelve Signs of the Zodiac, (of which: hepeaftal 
viz. thirty to each Sign. Next to this you have the names of the 
Signs. Next to this the days of the month according to the of 
ſtile, and then according to the new ſtile. Beſides theſe there 
circle, repreſenting the thirty-two rhumbs, or poiats of the u 
ner's compaſs. The uit of all theſe will be explained afterwards 


Maxin. ] This circle is repreſented by the braſs dig 
which the Glohe hangs and turns. It is divided into three hund 
and ſixty degrees, and cuts the Eqnator at right angles 4 46 thi 
counting from the Equator each way to the Poles of the Won, 
contains four times ninety degrees, and divides the earth into 
Eaſtern and Weſtern Hemiſpheres. This circle is called the 
dian, becauſe when the Sun comes to the South part of ith it ib 


that day, which is therefore called its Meridian Altitude. Now asth 
Sun is never in its Meridian Altitude at two places Eaſt: or Wella 
one another at the ſame time, each of theſe places mult have ig 
Meridian. There are commonly marked on the Globe twenty4 
Meridians, one through every fifteen degrees of the Equator. 

. #*, . * 1 


compaſſes in this operation, there is commonly a pliant narrow pd 


grees, or one quarter of the circumference of the Globe, by m 


the trouble of firſt extending the compaſſes between them, aud mu 


applying the ſame to the Equator, This plate is called the N 
of Altitude. | A. OY 2 


Hovk crxcts.] This is a ſmall braſs circle fixed. on the brat 
Meridian, divided into 24 hours, and having an Index moves 


It has been found eaſier to diſtinguiſh places by the quarters of! 
earth, in which they lay, than by their diſtance from am ® 


earth into two parts, called the Northern and Southern Hemiſpt 
it was eaſy to ſee that all places on the Globe might be diſtinguil 
according as they lay on the North, or South tide of the Eat 
Beſides, after the four leſſer circles we have mentioned came 0 
known, it was fpund that the Earth, by means of them, might 


* 
= e 8888 


2 Wee 8 9 — Tun „ "I | 

es ASS ASE SARS 0 '* 8 
ay.th e might be diſtinguiſhed according as they lay in one or other of 
le hon ſe portions, which are called. Zones or Belts, from their partas © y 
ee WT > of breadth. That part of the eafth between the tropics, was 


ea by the Ancients the Torrid or Burnt Zone, becaiiſe they con- 
od, that, being cofitiaually expoſed to the perpendicular or di- 
| rays of the Sun, it was rendered uninhabitable, and contained 
50 hing but parched and ſandy deſarts. This notion however has 
s dra dg ſince been refuted. It is found, that the long nights; great 
nber d s, regular rains and bregzes, which prevail almoſt throughout 
reaftal Torrid Zone, render the earth not only habitable, but fo fruit- 


of the | that in many places they have two harveſts in a year; all forts 
ſpices and drugs are almoſt ſolely produced there; and it fur- , 

ere is hes more perfect metals, precious tones, and pearls, than all che | 
e man | of the earth together. In ſhort, the countries of Africa, Aſia, | 
atdy, America, which lye under this Zone, are in all reſpects the moſt | 
| tile and luxuriant upon earth, 1 1 . | 
ring! he two temperate Zones are compriſed between the Tropies and 1 
ma r Circles. They are called temperate, becauſe meeting the | 
ſo thi s of the Sun obliquely, they enjoy a moderate degree of heat. | 
'orld, 4 two frigid Zones lye between the Polar Circles and the Poles, | 
nto rather are incloſed within the Polar Circles. They are called the 
e Me gid or Frozen, becauſe moſt part of the year it is extremely cold | | 
is die e, and every thing is frozen ſo long as the Sun is under the Ho- | 
rude { on, of but a little above it. However, theſe Zones are not quite” | 
1 ast! nhabitable, though much leſs fit for living in than the Torrid. 1 
Wer e of all theſe Zones is thoroughly diſcovered by the Euro- a | 
ab: ns. Little is known to us of the Seuthern temperate Zone, and 

ty ugh ſome iſlands and ſea-coaſts in the Northern Frigid Zone 


re come to our knowledge, we have none at all of the Southern 
gid Zone. The Northern Temperate, and Torrid Zones are 
le we are beſt acquainted wich. | 


' 

LIMaTEs.) But the diviſions of the earth into Hemiſpheres | 
| Zones, though it may be of advantage in letting us know in "_ 
at quarter of the earth any place lyes, is not ſufficiently minute | 
giving us a notion of the diſtances between one place and ano- | 
r. This. however is ſtill more neceſſary; becauſe it is of more 
portance to mankind, to know the fituation of places, with re- 
d to one another, than with regard to the Earth itſelf, The 
t ſtep taken for determining this matter, was to divide the Earth 
d what is called Climates. It was obſerved that the day was al- 
ys twelve hours long on the Equator, and that the longeſt day 
eaſed in proportion as was advanced North or South on either 
of it. The ancients therefore determined how far any place 
$ North or South of the Equator, or what is called the Latitude 


joveal 


utor, And as they called the ſpace contained between theſe cir- 

» Climates, becauſe they declined from the Equator towards the 

e, ſo the Circles themſelves may be called Climatical Parallels. 

is therefore was a new diviſion of the Earth, more minute than 

© of Zones, and ſlill continues in uſe, though, as we ſhall 3 ö 
C 


dedt de place, from the greateſt length of the day at that place. This 
77 de them conceive —— of circles parallel to the Equator, 
-uithe ch bounded the length of the day at different diſtances, from the 


k MC» * % 
it i Hand 


my N * 
* 3% WT * * 1 ©. * £4 4 " a 6 4 . - * q 
8 < - » . —”— _ > 1 of \ 4 
Lo es Led * * * | : 7 


* - 
| 4 * 7 LI 


„% N To D 0c tir ol 
the deſign. which firſl, introduced it may be better anſweredin'a 

ther way. There are zo climates between the Equator aud e 
Pole. In the firſt 24, the days increaſe by half hours, bit ny 
- . remaining fix, between the Polar Circle and the Poles, the& 
. increaſe by monthkss. | „ ds 
The diſtance of places from the Equator, or what is called i 
Latitude, is eaſily meaſured on the Globe, by means of the Me 
dian above deſcribed. For we have only to bring the place, whd 
latitude we would know, to the Meridian, where the degret uf 
titude is marked, and it, will be exactly over the place. Now d 
the manner alluded to, by which the diſtance of places from the 
quator, is moſt properly diſtinguiſned; but it could not be-adoy 
until the figure and circumference of the earth were kno²- 
which it was eaſy to determine the number of miles in each 360 
part or degree of this circumference, and conſequently knowithe 
titude of places. As Latitude is reckoned from the Equator toni 
the Poles, it is either Northern or Southern, and the nearer 
Poles the greater the Latitude; and no place can have mort 
go degrees of Latitude, becauſe the Poles, where they termin 
are at that diſtance from the Equator. 7 


Parallels of Latitude.) Through every degree of Latitude, | 
more properly through every particular place on the earth, 

| graphers ſuppoſe a circle to be drawn, which they call a paralldi 
Latitude. The interſection of this circle, with the meridian ofa 


place, ſhews the true ſituation of that place. * 


Longitude.] The longitude of a place is its ſituation with re 
to its meridian, and conſequently reckoned towards the Eaſt or a 
in reckoning the Longitude there is no particular ſpot from Which 
ought to ſet out preferably to another, but for the advantage d 
122 rule, the meridian of Ferro, the moſt weſterly of the © 121 
flands, was conſidered as the firlt meridian in moſt of the globesa 
maps, and the Longitude of places was reckoned to be ſo many de 
Eaſt or Welt of the meridian of Ferro. LTheſe degrees are marked 
the Equator. No place can have more than 180 degrees of L 
tude, becauſe the circumference of the globe being 360 degrees 
place can be moved from another above half that diltance ; hut 
foreign geographers very. improperly. reckon the longitude ql 
round the globe. The degrees of Longitude are not equal 
thoſe of Latitude, but diminiſh in proportion as the meridians 
cline, or their diſtance contracts, in approaching the pole. Hence! 
60 degrees of Latitude, a degree of Longitude is. but half the q 
tity. of a degree on the Equator, and ſo of the reſt. 'The,nuaber! 
miles contained in a degree of Longitude, in each parallel of 4 
tude, are ſet down in the following table. \ 4m 


\ 
Longitude and Latitude found.] To find the Longitude and 
tude of any place, therefore, we need only bring that place 1 
Brazen Meridian, and we ſhall find the degree of Longitude mam 
on the Equator, and the degree of Latitude on the Meridian 
that to find the difference between the Latitude or Longitude of 


1 


INTRO DUO I oO N. 19 


1 in 
id eith 
It u 


the 


+h one another, and the reduction of theſe degrees into miles 3 
1 remembering that every degree of Longitude at the Equator, 
d every degree of Latitude all oyer the globe, is equal to 60 geo- 


* diſtance between any places on the globe, 
led the 


Diflance of places meaſured. ] The diſtance. of places which lye 
he Ma an oblique direction, i. e. neither directly South, North, Eaſt, or 
ey wag eſt, from one another, may be meaſured in a readier way, by ex- 
re of | ding the compaſſes from the one to the other, and then applying 


em to the Equator, 


| s HEWI _ | 
he Number of Miles contained in a Degree of Longitude, i 


% 


each Parallel of Latitude from tne Equator. 
8 3 2 7 828 | 5 FE 
E| ES 331 E 933 382 
21 3 |. I 8 14 | 935! eo [a 
2 2 | * G8 8 8. 8 8 
882 Aa Ss os 6285 
1159] 90 31135173 12904 
25994 32 50.| 88 | 62 | 28] 17 | 
3 | 59 | 92 33 | 50 | 32 - 1 63] 27] 24 
4 | 59 | 86 34 |'49 74 64 | 2630 
5159 77 35 149 15 65] 25] 36 }- 
6 | 59 | 67 36] 48 54 66 | 24 | 41 | 
759 56 37 92 672345 
85940 384728 68 | 22 | 48 
9 | 59 | 20 39 | 46 | 62 69 | 2t] 51 þ 
Jo | 59 | 08- 40] 46 oo 70 20-] 52 
5818 414528 171119154 
12 | 38 68 424495 | 72 |-15 | 55 
3158] 46 43 | 43 [88 73] 17 | 54 
4|58 | 22 44 | 43] 16 74 | 16] 53] 
I5 | 55 | oo 45 | 42 | 43 75] 151] 52} 
1657 60 46 | 41 | 68] 16] 14] 51 
17157] 39 47 | 4r-j] 00 77113150 
IS | 57 | 04 48 | 40 | 15 78 | 12 | 48 
0 | 55 | 73 4939 36 | | 79] 11 [45 
po 5638 503857 . 
Rene: | 56 | 00 513773 \[8r]o9|38}] 
2 
23 
4 


aces, we haye only to compare the degrees of either, thus found, | 


xphic miles, or 69x Engliſh, we ſhall be able exactiy to determine 


o IN TR ODU Tr ton 


* THE YARIOUS POSITIONS or Tas Oe 
SPHERE. 


g is Or ru RIGHT POS ITION./ ! 

That poſition of the Sphere where the Equator is N 
to the Horizon, is called the ny Poſition. 
"IN Here both Poles are in the Horizon. 

2. All the Stars do riſe and ſet. 

3. All the nocturn al arches are equal to their a and 
63 there is a perpetual equality of days and nights. 

4. The twilight is here ſhorteſt ; becauſe the Sun aſcend any 
ſcends right to the Horizon, © © 


II. or Tus OBLIQUE POSITION. 
That poſition of the Sphere, 'where the Equator is oblique tot 
3 is called the Oblique Poſition. 

Tere, when the Sun is in the Equator, it makes the dan; 

night every-where equal, 

The greater the elevation of the Pole is, the longer the 

5 days are; and the ſhorter the Winter days: 80 under 

Polar Circles, at the time of the Solltices, it is all day, or all U 

3. The.twilight is ſo much the longer, as the Pole is wy. | 

that in latitudes of about 60 degrees, when it is near the gu 
Solſtice, the twilight f is ſufficient to read by at midnight. 


III, Or ru PARALLEL POSITION. 

That poſition bf the Sphere, where the Equator is parallel tol 
Horizon, is called the Parallel Poſition. 

1. Here the Poles of the Equator are in the Zenith and Nad 

2. The Stars and Planets, in their diurnal motion, deſcribes 
cumferences parallel to the Horizon. 

3 The Sun is half a year above, and half a year under the ll 
rizon ; for the Horizon biſſects the Ecliptic. 

4. Here the ſame hemiſphere of fixed Stars is always above 
Horizon; and ſo is each Planet during half its period; vis, 
about 14 years, Jupiter 6, Mars 1, Venus 1- 3d of a year, and 

1-6th of a year. 

But the Polar inhabitants (if any) are not in darkneſs allf 
time of, the Sun's abſence : For the Moon, while brightelt, 
from the firſt quarter to the laſt, does not ſet. 

And the twilight laſts while the Sun has leſs than 18 degrees & 
clination; ſo that thoſe under the North Pole are without twilp 
only from the middle of November till the end of January, and un 
the South Pole, there isan abſence of twilight from the middle of Ju 
to the end of July. 

Alfa, becauie ot the refraction in ſuch denſe air, the Sun appea 

ſooner; and goes off later, by ſeveral days, than otherwiſe it 
as has been found by experience. 


Or THE naTuralL DIVISION or TE TE RRAQUEOL 
GLOBE. 
By this natural diviſion, is meant the parts into which the f 


face of the earth is divided by the interpoſition of land and wan 


—— 


: 1 * * 


IN TAO DUeT 1 O N. It 


The ſuperficies, or ſurface of the Terraqueous Globe, bas hawk 
er pages in four covered by the waters, and ſomewhat =. 


other fourth part is land. 


_” 


Geographers generally reckon four Continents, or very large 


vrtions of land, each containing many countries; namely, 
rope, 'Afia, Africa, and America; and alſo the continents near 
» Poles : That about the North Pole is called the Terra Artica ; 
d that about the South Pole is called the Terra Antartica. © 
From what is yet known of theſe polar continents, they appear 
have very few inhabitants, neither are the lands parcelled out in» 
different kingdoms and ſtates, like to the above- named fout con- 
ents : Beſides theſe continents, there are, in the neighbourhood 


each of them, ſeveral pieces of land quite ſurrounded by the ſea, . 


hich are called andi. 4 $92, 

The continents of Europe, Afia, and Africa, are contiguous in 
ze parts, and lye moſtly in the Northern Hemiſphere ; and ſo 

es the greateſt part of America; which is therefore called North 
erica, and ſtretches very near to the North Pole; but this is not 
t determined, becauſe the difficulties of approaching the Pole, on 
count of the intenſe cold, have not hitherto been ſurmounted : 


he other part, called South America, lyes chiefly in the Southern 


emiſphere : Theſe two parts of America are joined together by a 
urrow piece of land called an /fhmus, and is called the Iſthmus of 


arien; Aſia and Africa do alſo join together by ſuch a narrow 


ck of land, called the Iſthmus of Suez. 


As the waters ſeparate the continents, ſo the continents ſe- 
rate the waters, and thereby form five very large collections of 
aters called Oceans; namely, the Northern Ocean, the Pacific Oce- 
b, the Southern Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the Atlantic Ocean. 


The Northern Ocean flows along the coaſts of the Artic continent, 


dd the Northern parts of Europe, Aſia, and America. 
The Pacific Ocean, which is larger than all the other oceans put 


gether, waſhes the Weſtern and North-Weſt ſhores of America; and 


te Eaſtern and North-Eaftern ſhores of Aſia: It extends Eaſt and 
Felt about 10,000 miles, and North and South about 11,000 miles. 
The Southern Ocean lyes to the Southward of America and Afri- 
it joins the Pacific Ocean to the Southward, and ſkirts ſome 
arts of the Antartic continent: Its extent is not known. 
The Indian Ocean lyes chiefly to the South of Aſia, but extends 
the Pacific Ocean on the Eaſt, and to parts of the Southern or 
nartic continent: It extends about 4000 miles Eaſt and Weſt, and 
ween 7 and 8000 miles North and South. | 
The Atlantic Ocean! yes chiefly between America to the Weſt, and 
urope and Africa on the Eaſt, and joins on to the Indian and Sou- 
ern Oceans: Its extent from North to South is about 6000 miles, 
bd from Eaſt to Weſt between 3 and 4000 miles ; the Northern part 
um called the Weſtern Ocean, as lying to the Weſtward of 
It muſt not be imagined that theſe oceans are diſtinct parts bound- 
by land, ſor all of them do make one great connected maſs of 
water; 


] 


7 : 
* 4 


22  LNTRODUCYT I 0 Nt 


water; but are named as above, from their ſituation with reſped 
the continents; Neither are the extents above-mentioned tobe; 

ſtood otherwiſe than on a mean; the extents being in ſomepl 
ces more, and in other places leſs, than the number vt miles ally 


ed to the reſpective oceans. Th | -/ up 


+ Theſe, oceans alſo, on the parts contiguous to the land, hy 
very irregular boundaries; ſome very large parts extending | 
tween the continents, or within a continent, are called Seas; © 
s of, a leſſer ſize, flowing within ſome large hollow part off 
hang, are called Bay or Gulphs ; if the paſſage from the ocean 
into the gulph is a narrow channel, the paſſage is called a þ 
or ftreight. There are in ſome of the continents very large 
of water, called Zakes, which do not appear to have any con 
tion with the oceans or ſeas. 7 TT PC | 


A part of land which is almoſt encompaſſed by water, is cal 
a Peninſula.; and the narrow neck by which the Peninſula is jou 
to the other land is called an Ih A mountain extending 
the ſea, is called a Promontory; and that part of a Promentoryq 
extended into the ſea, is called a Cape or Headland. . 


Or Tus TERRESTRIAL GLOBE axv MAPS 


It has been cuſtomary for Geographers to repreſent” a 
| Tphere or globe the natural and political diviſions of the ſurfac 
the earth; whereon are diſtinguiſhed the continents and illatids 
oceans, ſeas, gulphs, lakes, &c. And the continents are du 
into the ſeveral kingdoms and ſtates which at that time are e 
for by the frequent quarrels among nations, the boundaries of 
tries are altered; and therefore the political diviſion at one 4 
does not always agree with that of another time: But it ſhould 
obſerved, that, on the largeſt globes that are made, the ſize ll 
ſeveral countries cannot be expreſſed large enough for to'thewi 
the parts diſtinctly; and therefore the repreſentations of the 
nents and the ſeveral kingdoms they contain, and alſo of partes 
kingdoms, and of the ſeveral parts of them, are drawn on 
ſheets of paper, which are called Maps; and in theſe maps alt 
particulars of the coafts, i/lands, bays, rivers, mountains, and 
may be ſo diſtinctly expreſſed, as to furniſh competent ideas d 

the ſmall parts repreſented. 


When a learner takes a Terreſtrial Globe in his hand, whid 
here ſuppoſed, he Thould firſt look for the ſeveral- continents 
their names, and draw his finger round the out- line or boundaf 
each, which he may do by the help of the general tables 
Grammar, prefixed to the account of each continent; and 
ſhould do ſo often, till he can lay his hand on any continent 
its figure only, without looking for the name: He ſhould the 
the ſame by the oceans, ſo that, knowing well the fitnation ot 
the great parts, he will not afterwards be at a loſs in Jooking fort 
ſmall parts: The next thing ſhould be to find the Kingaomd 


FT RHODU ET TORN 'H 
e of each continent; and on theſe he ſhould fo long practiſt 
elf, as to be able to lay his finger on any country, fea, or great 
4, belonging to either continent, without ſeeking the name, 
only from the figure, or from the poſition of it, with reſpe& to 
reat part: And when he finds himſelf able to do this readily, 
ch may be attained in a few days, he may then proceed to ſeek 
places of the principal mountains, rivers, and towns. 
With this ready acquaintance with the capital parts on the 4 
may proceed to the maps of particular parts, where he "will 
> to find more particularly ſuch places as he reads of in hiſtory, 
ge ws · papers; and be able to follow” a traveller through all the 
ces he mentions in the courſe of his journey; or to ſee the track 


ſued by an army in its march from place to place. 


here is generally marked on Terreſtrial Globes; the track 
ich one of the Circumnavigators has failed, during the courſe of 
voyage out and home. That of Lord Ansox is commonly laid 
vn on the modern globes; a learner” ſhould trace, or run over 
track with his finger frequently, which will furniſh him with the 
ions of what ſeas are to be- ſailed over, in paſſing. from one con- 
nt to another; and alſo what countries, coaſts, or iſlands are 
ſed by in voyages made from one place to another. a 
Then a learner has made himfelf maſter of the preceding parti- 
rs, he may proceed to the ſolution of Problems, which are uſu- 
given to ſhew the uſe of the globe, as they furniſh many parti- 
rs requiſite to be well-known by thoſe who deſire to be compe- 


- 


tly killed in Geography. : 


GEOGRAPHICAL PROBLEMS 
PERFORMED NT THE GLOBE. 
PROBLEM I. * 


te diameter of an artificial globe being given, to find its ſur ace in 
we, and its folidity in cubic meaſure. N 4 


ULTIPLY the diameter by the circumference, which is a 
great circle dividing the globe into two equah parts, and 
product will give the firlt; Then multiply the ſaid product by 
lath of the diameter, and the product of that will give the 
dnd. After the ſame manner we may find the ſurface and ſoli- 
of the natural globe, as alſo the whole body of the Atmo- 
nh ſurrounding the ſame, provided. it be always and every whete 
Oy height; for having found the perpendicular height 
a by that common experiment of the aſcent of Mercury at 
ape top of a mountain, double the ſaid height, and add 
© 10 the diameter of the earth; then multiply the whole, as 

a new 


4 ” 5 1 * * © 2 4 4 
- - — . — ͤ— * — 
8 — vo ro. — —— [— 


| as the place is found on the North or South fide of the Eq 


gitude: Suppoſe 36 1-4th N. and 5 W. 


* 7 - | 4 9 Ws L 
: 


V 


.* " | | g "4 
„ rio Duero 
a new diameter by its proper circumference, and from the prod 
ſubtract the ſolidity of the earth, it will leave that of the atm 


nen. 


g Given any place on the Globe: 
A Required ier Latitude and Longitude. 


_ Solutian, | Turn the Globe about its axis till the propoſed play 
brought under the braſs Meridian, on that part where the depn 
are numbered from the Equator towards the Pole. 
Then the degrees on the braſs Meridian, over the | place, 
ſhew the .Latitude required. | 

And it is to be reckoned as North, or South Latitude, accord 


And by turning the Globe about, all the places which paſs w 
this degree of the Meridian, will have the ſame Latitude. 
Alſo, the place being brought to the Meridian again, the dy 
en the Equator, cut by the edge of the Meridian, will give 
Longitude of that place. | 
And all the place under the braſs Meridian will have the f 
Longitude. 
hen the 2 of Longitude are numbered quite round! 
Equator from the Meridian, where Longitude begins, to 3864 
rees ; the Longitude is uſually named ſo many degrees Ealt; | 
if above 180, that number taken out of 360, will give the I 
tude Weſtward. | | 
Thus. The Northermoſt point of the continent of, Europe, a 
ed the North Cape, will be found in the Latitude of about 5134 
s North, and about 26: Eaſt Longitude from the Meridua 
ndon. * 
Alſo. The Southermoſt point of the continent of America, al 
ed Cape Horn, is in South Latitude about 55 3-4th degrees neat 
and in Longitude about 66 degrees Weſt from London. 
Hence. The reverſe of this Problem is eaſy, namely, to fin 
place upon the Globe, which ſhall have a given Latitude and 


For. Seek the given degrees of Longitude, 5 Welt on thes 
quator, and bring it to the Meridian; on which count the gien! 
grees of Latitude. 36 1-4th N; and under this Latitude will 1 
place required, which will be found to be Gibraltar. 


PROBLEM III. 


Given the time of the year, +9212, 
Required zhe Sun's place in the Ecliptic, and his declination 


| Solution. Seek the given time in the circle of months on the 
rizon ; and right againſt it, in the circle of the ſigns, is dhe 


place. 1 
Thus. The 1cth. of March ſtands againſt the zoth degi® 
Piſces. . | {COS OR | 
Then Piſces being ſought on the Globe, on that part of the 
cliptic which lyes on the South - ſide of the Equator, and wy 


' 


18T ko DUEtTtON „ 

brough to the Meridian will ſtand under the / on 
ory ogg ag 
that da. | Sa ha EE 


8 


Civ on the Globe, and the time of years 
Ge CU Re BOK on a 4 : 


n. Find the Latitude of the place by Prob. I. z over which 
the quadrant of Altitude and the Globe is redtify'd for the Ee. 


Raiſe or lower the pale," by iet the Meridian is itt norehes, 

the number of degrees of Latitude, counted from the Pole on 
Meridian, is cut by the upper ſurface of the Horizon: And | 
$ it redtifying for the Latitude. . 
Find the Sun's place in dhe Eeliptic by Prob- II. ; big it to the 

ridian, and ſet the inden dt che hour-circle'to the upper 211. and 

Globe is rech d for NU * * 

Here the Horizon of the Globe the" Hevieon'of the 
jt: end the I EECEEO COINS 
Latitude of the place. | 


PROBLEM V. 


ven tvs places bn the Globe, 
Required their diſtance from . ; Ard on OM point of the 
compaſs one of them bears from the other. Sappeſe London and 

Jeruſalem. >, 

Polution, Rectify the Globe for the Latitude and Zenith of one 

the places, as for London, by Prob. III. | 

eep the Globe in this poſition, and move the quadrant about 

its edge cuts the other place, as Jeruſalem ; count the number of 

ees on the quadrant between the two places, and they will 

r their diſtance in de viz. 32 f. 

beſe degrees multiplied by 60, give 2555 for the diſtance i in 
graphical miles: Or the degrees hir by 70. give 2275. 

diſtance in Engliſh miles 

lo the quadrant lying over London and Jeruſalem, i its edge will - 


the Horizon againſt the 5oth degree nearly of the eompaſs ; or 
d. 70 degrees Eaſt, which is the bearing of Jeruſalem from Lon- 


lo. All the places over which the edge of the quadrant paſſes, 
| have the ſame poſition from London as Jeruſalem has. 

nd in like manner may the bearing and diſtance of any two 
<5, not exceeding go degrees of diſtance, be found. 

tnce it is eaſy to find the places that ate at a given diſtance 


D a given place. 


Thus. To find all the places that are 22 En miles ar 
from London. * 75 ii 


- 


_ 


tian. Divide the given an 51 22 * by 70 ok ives 325 


= 
— "4 
* 4 * 
. ² A . . r — 


M b Wonen M. 


- degrees; let the quadrant be ſcrewed over Londons when 

under the Meridian: Then the quadrant being moved rovnd; 
the Globe is kept ſteady, will ſhew all the —— that are 34 
diſtant from London; theſe are, part of Barbary, — 
dulgerid, part of Egypt, Iſthmas of Buez in Africa; 
falem, part of Syria, Derbent on the Caſpian Seay Ali n, 
of Siberia, ws, = of 9 tes, os Tema in 5 
James's Iſland, Streights of Bell-iſle, you * the Lal coal 

(4 be re DG WT 7 34. 0413 halt 


344A - 140 „ . n 1 


make * a pair of com mo to the two places, i 
extent to the equator : emma 
points will be the diſtane. 0 

IF the Globe was rectified for Jeruſalem, and: the duden 
over Jeruſalem and London, the diſtance n 
the quadrant will cut the N. W. point of the or N 
Weſt, which ſhews the bearing of London ſrom Jeruſalem 
But the bearing of two places from one — ISInY 
Polite rhombs or points of the compaſs. 

Therefore, this ſolution, inſtead of givi the — 
angle of poſition, which is the angle made by the Meri 
place, and a great cirele paſſing "og. both 2 je 
rhomb is not a circle of the Globe. N 


PROBLEM vl. 


Gived © place e the Glite and r 
Required all thoſe places which have noon at that bins 
Suppoſe when it js 3 o'clock afternoon. at Londos. 


Solation. Bring the given place, London, to the Meridian 
ſet the hour-index to the given hour, 3 aſternoon. 
Turn the Globe till the inder points at x1+ at nden The 
the places under the Meridian will have their noon When ## 
the clock. afternoon at London. 
_ hheſe places will be in ſome parts of North and Soul 
and ſome of the Carribean u 


| 


K 


p And on the contrary, außen it; is noon r 
ts find what hour it is at any other propoſed place ; ſuppaſe at 
the Malabar coaft in the Eaft Indies. 

Here London being brought to the Meridian, and the ind ur: 
to x11 at noon ; then the Globe turned round till Bombays 
under the Meridian, the index; will point at 4 „ren 
noon, when it is noon at London. 

Allo, - when it is noon at a given place, ſuppoſe Bar un 
what time it will be at another place, ſuppoſe Lond. 

Now Barbadoes being brought to the Meridian, and the ind in 
to x17 at noon; then the Globe turned round till London c 
the Meridian, the index will point to 4 of the clock in thea 
for the time at London when it is noon in , lane 


— 


* 


\ 


INTRO DN Ut Co Toll Ow NG „ 


od hence. ic, vill be very; eaſy to find what hour it is in any pro». 
N places at any ginen ohr in another given Place. . 
dus. When it is 10 o'clock in the forenoon at Mexico, it wi 
and to be 3 quarters after 4 in the afternoon at Paris. _ 
or Mexico being brought to the, Meridian, and the hour-index 
0 x in the forenoon ; then turning the globe till Paris comes 
ie Meridian, the index will-point $0 4 3-fourth hours afternoon. 
hain, London being br ht to the Meridian, and the index ſet 
u; move the Globe till: Naples comes to the Meridian, and the 
x will point to 1 o'clock, Naples being 15 degrees to the Ealtward 
London; and all places lying 8 degrees Ealt of London, have 
r noon-day an hour earlier... Continue to turn the Globe 15 de. 
; further, and Peterſburg, Conſtantinople, and Grand Cairo,. 
be found under the eridian, or near to it:; conſequently 
index will. point to 2 O' clock, theſe three cities having mid-day 
ut two hours before London. If the. Globe is turned another 158 
es, the index will point to the hour of three for all places Iy- 
then under the brazen Meridian, being 45, degrees Eall of Lon- 
, have the Sun three hours earlier; and thus for every 15 de- 
« the Globe is ſo turned, ſo many hours ſooner Will the Sun be, 
the Meridian of places iu ſuch Longitude. - On the, contrary, if 
s required what hour it is at an place 15 degrees Welt of Lone, , 
„ redify the Globe for London, as before, and, having fe the 
ex at 12, turn the Globe till that place comes under the brazen. 
ridian, and the index will point to the hour of eleven, becauſe 
ſuch places as ly 15 degrees Welt; of, London, have their noon + 
hour after, as at the Madeira's : And in like manner for other. 
es Weſt of London, Arn Se 3; OnoT Hh 05 


PROBLEM VI. 
wen the hour of . any day in the year at a givin place, 
Required the place where the Sun it vertical at "that: time. > - 


” 
= 

* 
4 


ra 


London, 9 the 10th. of May. 1 nn 


ation. Find the Sun's Mlace in the Ecliptic on the given day; 
ith of May, by Prob. II. which, gives 20 degrees in Taurus; 
ng that place to the Meridian, mark the degrees over it, vir. 17 
frees, and this will be the Sun's declination on that day. | ; 
Bring London to the Meridian, and ſet the index to 9. i-fourth 
urs forenoon, nn = * 
Turn the Globe till the index points to x11 at goon; then the 
dee under the ſaid marked degree has the Sun in the Zenith at 
Rome which is Dabul on the Malabar cgaſt in the Faſt Indies. 
. en by turning the Globe quite round, all the places which 
under the 17th degree marked on the Meridian, will have the 
in vertical to them on that day ; which will be in India, within 


Manilla, one of te Martan Illes, part of "Mexico, Jamaica 
Fabia Felix. 


D 2 * Sg 


4 


! the given time be at a quarter after 75 o'clock in forenoon t | 


d without the Ganges, Bay of Tonquin, North part af the Iſlant 


und of Antego, acroſs the continent of Africa, Red Sea, and 


1 4 


NG 


— — 


—— 


— — 
— On —— 


r w: K ⁰˙ — Rte 
N * : 


G 9 of * > * 
— — — — 9 — — T 23 ˙— — 


— T —— 


o £F 


* * 6 
4 pa » 2 
— . wow tht — HS 4 
ad ” 
—_ , — —— — 


25 15 W INIT“ R 0 5 Ver Io 


o — : 7ðñ ey 
— - = - _ S » 


- a * Kerr 
— — — — h 
. N f ' 
= 8 4 
» = * = = 
\ "Is; — 


Seluren. Note the latitude” of the gi 


Meridian. Then 30% of Aries, and 0 degrees of Virgo; kl | 


will paſs 29 degrees of Scorpio, and 3 degrees of N 


- xizon, and the Meridian, or hour-circle, croſſing in thoſe po 


| ſhe win the days and nights are each 12 hours. 


I 


* 


80 pray" ery place in the Torrid Zone will have they 
N eee 
r 15 1e e de an ; | a4 1 ory 
„ ccc 
i r N 28 irn Dr 
\» Given o plate in the Torrid E.. 
R ww AE un be vertical to that place, 
a at Cape Comorin, in the Bal Indies ; and Pate, in m 
place og dhe Mel 
Turn the Globe, and mark what parts of the Eeliptic gf w 
the latitude marked on the Meridian. - Seek for thoſe part 
Ecliptic in the circles of figns on the Horizon ; and the e 
months will be found with thoſe parts of the Ecliptie: 
Thus Cape Comorin is in 8 North latitude ; and 26" degite 
Aries, and 10 degrees of Virgo, paſs under that rige 


: 


= 


« 


ſought among the ſigns on the Horizon, they will befound wh 
againſt the gth of Koril, and the 2d of September. * 
Again. Potofi is in 20 degrees of South latitude 3 under un 


theſe found on the on NY the 19th of November and the 
of January ; fo an rhe gth of April and zd of Septernber thet 
will be vertical to Cape Comorin; and will be ae vertical! 
toh on the 19th of November and on the 3d of Jatitaty.” 

4 "OF EOFEEN 1; 
Given the Sun'; greateſt declination. 53 4 lb 
Required the lengths of the langoſ days and nights in all th 

lels of latitude on the Globe at dhe view. | | 
Solution. Bring the Sun's place in the tropic of Carer Bs 

Meridian, and gectify the Globe for 24+ degrees bf inge | 

ſerve the points where any propoſed parallel of latitude cuts the 


4 


that parallel of latitude. Wann 1+ tart. 
Then the number of Meridians or hour-circles, aboye the 
zon, between thoſe points, will ſhew the length of the Jangens 
„„ ioghtpttrouorurelers | 
Thus, At the Equator, 12 Meridians are abbye the Han 
In the parallel of 10 degrees of latitude, there are between 
13 ſpaces between the Meridians above the Horizon, ſnewing 
length of the days in that latitude to be between i and 13 e 
fog latirude of 20 degrees, the days are berween 43 ad f 
F n latitude, of 39 degrees, there ate ig of ſuch meridional 18 
above the Horizon, ſhewing the days t & 14 hours long. 
In latitude 40 degrees, the days are between, 14 806 19 
ng. " ; TIT *.- St x TTL. 
n latitude of 50 degrees, the days are ſomewhat above 16 bon 
In latitude of 60 degrees, about 18 hours long. 


* rt * D' 5 a T ITONe 


urs, leave the lengths of che nights. 


bern Hemiſp phere, when che Sun is in the tropie of . 


What is ſaid of 
Is allb of Southern latitudes, hben the Sun * be nt rage 


pigs P41 1 


FL bove ſolution although it ſhews at 2 view a com rater 
x th is 4 ferent latitaBet, yet a more 


lace thay be fountl. G * 
2 12 che Globe for ths nibude:* (Prob. 107.) * Kal 


Eaſtern part of the Horben: and ſet the hbur · indes to 
” Tarn the Globe till the Sölſtirtal point comes to the Weſtern 


ch of the longeſt day in that place, 2 ; 4 
thoſe hours taken out of 24 hours, the remainder ſhews the agen 


he night, 


bot, The tongeſt day ia ve ſongd to be about 16 
n e EN INTER IEEE 
bars and a q 


e Dres 
PROBLEM x 2 


Given the leude of the plat rnd ay of the month, - 

Required en of hip ol the time 1 5 
riſmg and ſetting. J.' P27 RE *. Bs | * 

Wation,” Kectify the Globe for ne ven. lacked: Ms mL) 
Find the Sun's place, and bring it Wl e Eat fide of 

ſet the hour-index to x1 of noon ; then turn the Globe from 
to Weſt, until the Sun's place touch the Welt nde bf the Hort 
and the hours paſſed over by. the the index vil ſhew*the number 


ours the day is Jon 


rs beyond the lower x11, then are the days 16 hours long hd 
Again, bring the Sun's place to the brazen Mevidian,” Ku. 


uch the Eaſt ſide of the Horizon, and then ſee ut what door the 
x points, for that is the hour the Sun rie at. © ©) 

Iſo, turn the Globe from Eaſt to Weſt, till the Sun's place 
des the Weſt ſide of the Hortzon, ee e e 
hour the Sun ſets at. 

t may be obſerved, that the time of Suo-rifing, taken ont of 12 
Is, will give the time of Sug-ſetting. 

Tie ume of ſe:ting being doubled, gives the length of the day ; 


'PR 0+ 


2 15 5 
e of 


rthern latitudes. en the Sun is iu, Cungen, 8 


the Solſtitial point of that Hemiſphere, wherein * 


o the Horizon 7 and the hourt paſt oer . iden ths | 


Thus. If the hour-mdc? points to'4 in the Worin, which * 


ex at the upper x11, and turn the Globe from Weit to Eat, tin 


| (he time of fing being doubted, win give the length of the 


- 6 - 


— . , 5 . | | | ; 
* Nr R O r rom 
% 2d. bon P x 9 * E N. 7 DJs . | 


Aae eg. 8. && + 


Viren the latitude of the place, and day of the month, 
© © "Required the time when the rrobight begue, % e 


_ + Bolntion;, Rectify the Globe for the latitude and Zepith, (x; i 
Bring the Sun's place in the Ecliptic to the Meridian, aud 
Laden to x17 at noon. Mark the — 425 Ecliptic direQly ay 
fite to: the Sun's place ; for when the Sun's place is i de 
low the Horizon, his oppokce place will be 18 degrees 800 


FAS FT4 


e-Globe, and at the Gmc. time move the quadriiit til 
es on the quadrant ſtand over the ſaid marked point of fe 
— then will che hour inden ſhew the beginning and de 
* 92 G | 
—7 u ie, the time. of beginning. in che morning, when dhe 
paints on the quagrant and ecliptic meet in the, Weſtern e770 
or the time of ending in the evening, when the Jajd, Fer 
5 1 3 b oy 
£15.05! gil} a. 
The twili ght begins in 5 morni hen the ſan appr 
within 18 Par of aur horizon; ning, ends in the eveaingy f 
the fun is (deſcended 18 . below. the horizon; but nes th 
quator, the fun ſetting perpendicularly, it will deſcend. 18 1 
below the horizon, in about an hour after ſun-ſet, When 
commences in thoſe latitudes ; whereas in higher latitudes, as u 
22 of north latitude, the ſun ſets ſo obliquely in winter, tha 
wo hours after ſun-fet; before dark night 1 
lie Farther dittant any place is from the equator; the more 
— the fun ſets in ſuch paces, and n ſo much longer 
twilight inues. 0 
"At. Longhn, when the ſon's declination North . * gre 
22 1-balf; degrees, there is no total darkneſs, but unly . 
hich happens from the 36th of May to the 18th of July,” 
— 


Under the he North pole the twilight Zeaſes, when the fun fel 
yon airy: 64 want 7 South, which is from the 1 3th of 
vember till the e ſo that notwithſtanding the ſu 
abſent from 4 wg part of the world for half a year togethep, fer k 
darkneſs does not continue above 11 weeks ; and belides, Wenn 
is above the, horizon at the e for a wah A of en 


conch e f 26 Rig 
a adioq Vow ade Ib x11. Pr: 
6, pony any > nth 25 without the ptr ane, 

' 1 Kequired the climate f pluey is 44 ,*.> r19ho. oh yer 


Sualation. Find the length of the longeſt day i in "that place 
Then the-exceſs of the lon el day above 15 hours being doubs 


will give the climate require | 
of At London, where the longeſt day is about 16 1 


— — 


8 


Nr K 0. U D ο & 
i eee 


che number of the climate chat London id in. 


; be found more. aceurately by the table of ol 
125 (a 840% ok EL the column of latitudes fon chat of 


ziven place, againſt w will be found the number of the cli- 

te that place is in. 6 

Tbs tale ao theme the baude and climates within che polar | 

La, by having the length f he ven day i any plac, the 
12 hours, and the given length of the 


tude of that place 1s alſo 
or the difference between 
, being doubled, will give the climate belonging to that places 
n the climate 1 n e | 


(Art. 110. W Pe * I 1 1 at 
" PROB 1 1 K > « | abu 9 

Given ary plact on th# glb {2 & [1249s wot F. 
| Required te nation of the duct Prrice, 22 -t 


that placts 

Solution.. Bring the given place. to the meridian, gs 

tude; then that place under the meridian, having the ſame lati- 

le, on the contrary ſide of the equator, will be the ſituation of 

rk they having oppoſite ſeaſons of the year, buy the ſame 

des of the day. | 

The given — being under the meridian, i its latitude noted, and 
hour-index ſet to xn at noone | [{ (} © * 

Turn the globe till the index point to x11 at mi daight and the 

int under the noted latitude will be the place of the ae; het 

ung the ſame ſeaſons, but oppoſite times of the day. 

The globe remaining in this pofition,” ſeek the place under the me- 

lian, having the ſame latitude as the giyev place, but oz the con- 

ry ſide of the equator ; and the place thus found will he the poſi- 

n of the Antipodes to the given place, way * oppoſite ſeaſons, 
Id oppolite times of the day. N ae | 


PROBLEM. XW. 


Given a place in either frigid or frozen zone : | phegg 
Required the time when the ſun bighni 16 gn ö 


or depart 
from, that place : alſo, how A 1%, 
or abſent from, Ao ey 7 32 * 2 * 15 4 N 


. 5. the globe for the ladtade of whe given place. 
ro 

Turn the globe round, and mark AYR Rice: in oh fir and be- 
dad quarters of the ecliptic, in;the n are cut 
the North point of the horizon. If the given place is in North 

titude, and fo the North pole is above the horizon. 

Find theſe marked degrees of the ecliptic among the agns on the 
drizon, and their correſponding days of the month : all the 
— thoſe days, the ſun does not ſet in that place. 

Again. Note what degrees in the 3d and 4th 83 of the ec- 


„ 1 * 6 I. © 1 %% 
Uptic' in the Southern hemiſphere, will de eue by the 
the horizon. Thoſe noted d being found — 
on the horizon, and the correſponding days in the eirele of m 
then will the intermediate days ſhew the length of time the fu 
be abſent from that given place in the Winter ſenſon : the day y 


quarter being that on which the ſun begits co diſappear 
rene quarter, ben 
de begins to appear to that place. 


- ſuppoſe the given place was Cherry 
degrees North; then the North pole being elevated 74 Sdegrew dl 
the horizon, and the globe moved ron the North point of th 
rinon will cut the ecliptie in che firſt quarter, in 10 degree? 
rus, Which anſwers to April zoth; and in the zu quarter; i 
degrees of Leo, anſwering to Auguſt the 12th ; the inter 
days, during which times * ſun pever. ſets at that place, and« 
ſequently makes conſtant day 
Allo, the South point of the horieis: will car the ada 
zd quarter, in the 19th degree of Scorpio, which, anſwers to Nox 
ber the ad; and in the 4th quarter, in the zoth degree of A 
anſwering to February the 8th ; the interval is 99 days fron! 
ſun's beginning to diſappear at Cherry Iland on November the 
to his beginning to appear at that place on February the-3th; 
that time to the zoth of April, he riſes and ſets there and the 
always preſent till Auguſt the 42th; then riſes and ſets till Ne 
der the 2d and then is quite abſent till February . 


PROBLEM XV. 


— number. of days lofi than 182... 
Required that parallel of latitude on the glabe, where the jo 
not ſat during that number of days. 


- Solution. .Copnt on the ecliptic, beginning at the facminer fall i 
ak many threes nt ave half the given Lea of days; abating 
6 on every 30. 

ring that point of the ecliptic, ſo numbered, under the t 
on the north fide of the horizon, and note the degree of the m | 
dian ng over it; for that will de the latitude of the place 
quired. 

_ - Suppoſe the latitude of that place is the northern bemiſphere is 
where the ſun does not ſet for 104 days. 

Half the number of days is 52, and-abating two, N 
hows o; then 50 degrees reckoned on the ecliptic ſrom the 

ſolſtice, or firſt point of Cancer, will fall abour the L. 
of 1 Taurus; which point of Taurus brought to the meridian, falk | 
der 74 1-half degrees of the meridian ; and ſhews chat in werl 
Et of 94 1-half j of North latitude, the ſun mill ſhide © 
the ſpace of We: 8 without ſetting. VP. 


Iſland, in latitude 74 


1 


INTRO DUO To yy 
PROBLEM XVI. 

Given the hour of any day in the gear, at any place. 

Required all thoſe places of the earth where the ſun is viſible and 


inviſible; where he appears to be riſing and where. ſetting ; and. 
where mid-day and mid-night. | win dF. og} 


tien. Find the place where the ſun is vertical at that time. 
ob. VI. : L a f X | 
Lectify . globe for tlie latitude of that place, the ſame with the 

s declination, it being brought to the meridian. | 
hen all thoſe places above the horizon will have the ſua viſible, 
ave day; thoſe below the horizon have night. | . 
he places in the Weſtern half of the horizon have the ſun riſing: 
ſe in the Eaſtern half have the ſun ſetting. +-_ E. 
be places under the meridian, above the horizon, have mid-day 
thoſe which are oppoſite, and under the horizon, have mid- 


PROBLEM xvit. 
Given the latitude of the place and day of the month, 


Required the ſun's declination, and meridian altitude, the time of | 
ſun riſing and ſetting, and on what point of the compaſs. 


latin. Rectify the globe for the latitude and noon. (Pr. III.) 
hen the degree of meridian over the ſun's place is the declina-» 
. And the number of degrees counted on the meridian, from 
ſun's declination down to the horizon, ſhews the ſun's meridian 
ude. | 

Jr thus. Since the height of the equator above the horizon is 
ys equa! to what the latitude wants of go degrees. 

hen the height of the equator, increaſed by the declination when 
ſun is above the equator, or leſſened by the declination when be · 
the equator, will give the meridian altitude. | 7 
gain. Bring the ſun's place in the ecliptic to the Eaſlern ſide 
he horizon, and the hour - index will ſhew the time of riſing: and 
oſite to the ſun's place on the horizon is the point of the compaſs 
which he riſes that morning. | 

he ſun's place in the ecliptic, brought to the Weſtern fide of the 
z0n, oppoſite to it will be the point of the compaſs on the hori- 
on which the ſun ſets that evening; and the hour-index will 
t to the time. 

bus. If the globe be reified for London, at the Summer ſol- 
(June 22.) and the ſun's place in the ecliptic is brought to the , 
lide of the horizon; againſt it ſtands the letters N. E. tor North» 
upon the innermoſt circle of the wooden horizon; and on turn- 
the globe till the ſun's place is brought to the Weſt ſide of the 
on, it will point to the letters N. W. for North-Weſt upon the 


"a which are the points the ſun riſes and ſets at on the 22d 
Une 6 


Lo he contrary, the globe being rectiſied for London, as above, 
lan s place in the ecliptic, at the Winter ſolſtice, a” 
22. 


5 PO | Js | 
NT ROD UC TT. ON 

22.) be brought to the Eaſt ſide of the wooden horizon, it will 
to the letters 8. E. for South-Eaſt ; and on turning the globe 
bringing the ſan's place to the Weſt fide of the horizon, tf 
againſt the letters S. W. for South-Weſt, which are the two yi 
the-ſun riſes aud ſets at on the 22d of December, or the Winter 
| ſtice. From whence it appears, that there is a ſpace of 96 dei 
4 or one quarter of the globe difference, between the pdints the 
| 3 riſes at in the middle of Summer, and the middle of Winter, 
When the ſun is in Aries, or upon the equinoctial, it riſes dns 
and ſets due Weſt, to every place on the face of the earth; 
then the days are 12 hours long all the world over. 
There may be referred to this problem ſeveral other partial 
which are well worth tue knowing. > | 


— — 


— 


DD — — — 
— — l 


e a = 7 
F ˙ im ²!Ä1 m_S 
——— . 5 


"8, 
2 
7 
7 
* ©. — * 
— — 4 — — 
— 
*.% 


* 
—_ * N 


—— — = 
- 


Firſt. Where the ſun's place is brought to the meridian, tha 
gree of the equator cut by the meridian is called the fur; rig 
cer/ion, which is to be reckoned from the vernal equinox, 

Secondly. When. the ſun's, place is brought to the horizon; 
are thereof, contained between the degree oppoſite to the ſun'spl 
and the Eaſt or Welt points, is calied the ſun's amplitude tt 

morning it is the amplitude at riſing; in the evening it is called 
amplitude at ſetting. 


—_— 1 — — EE an. — 
. . . Ec oPmEmAL 


Thirdly. That degree of the equator which is cut by the hon 
at fun-riſing, is called the ob/qque aſcenſion; at ſun- ſetting thei 


deſcenſion 


Fourthly The difference between the number of degrees 
right aſcenſion and obligue aſcenſion is called the ſun's ofcentional 
ence, wich is equal to the time that the ſun riſes before, ord 
the hour of fix ; or ſets after, or before, ſix in the evening 

Thus. At London, on the longeſt day; the ſolſtitial pa 
Cancer brought to the meridian ; the equator will be cut in the 
degree for the ſun's right aſcerfron : the ſan's place brought 
Eaſtern fide of the horizon, the amplitude will be 40 degrees, al 

\gſcentional difference will be 56 degrees. . 

Then the difference between the right aſcenſion 90% and i 
cenſional difference 56®, is 34 degrees, which, at the rate of 
grees to an hour, gives 2 hours and 16 minutes; which rech 
before fix in the morning, gives a quarter before 4 o'clock, kt 
time of the ſun's riſing. -#* 


7 1 » 
— 4 
— — — 
— 4 


A contrivance for the ready performance of the parts of thi 
blem was ſome years ſince made, which is by a kind of calend 
a narrow flip of paper, and called an analemma, containuny 
months and days; and alſo the ſun's declination for each day. 
flip, which is ſomewhat longer than the breadth of the torrid u 
is on ſome globes paſted acroſs the equator at the vernal eq 
ſo that the globe being rectified for the latitude ; bring the au 
ma to the meridian, and the mid-day altitude will be obtaine 
any day of the year: for the day of the month and dechnationn 


a 2 


* - £5 FSC * - 4 . N . ds 
= 1 
- - n 


 INTRODUC.THEON | „ 
Inſt each other on the analemma; and oppoſite on the meridian 


c declination alſo. | - 
den any day on the analemma brought to the Eaſtern edge of 


.orizon, the degree of the horizon ſtanding againſt it is the am- 

ade at riſing. „ FP oe : 
PROBLEM XVIIL 

Given the time when an eclipſe of the ſun or moon is to begin a 


Required 4% theſe places on the earth to which the beginning, the 
middle, and the end of that eclipſe is viſibie. | 

Example. The eclipſe of the ſun on the 4th of June 769 which 
began about half an hour after 6 in the morning, and ended about 
half an hour after 8 ; the middle being at half an hour after 7 7 


near ily at London. | 


lution. Find the ſun's place for that day, which is 13 1-balf 
ees in Gemini; bring it to the meridian, and there mark his de- 
ation, which is 22 1-half degrees North, and elevate the pole 
hat declination. 
ring London to the meridian, ſet the index to half an hour after 
the morning, and turn the globe till the hour-index points to 
at noon ; then the place under the marked declination on the 
idian, will be the place where the ſun is vertical at that time; 
h is in the peninſula of Cambaya in India, on the Eaſt coalt of 
Arabian ſea. | 
Ind to all the parts then above the horizon the middle of that 
ſe will be viſible, which is all Europe, Aſia, and Africa, part 
erra Auſttalis and the North-Eaſt parts of America above Hud+ 
bay; the parts under the meridian, namely, Nova Zembla, 
ria, Tartary, the borders of Perſia and India, will obſerve, the 
dle of the eclipſe at their noon. 
Gain. Let London be brought to the meridian, and the hour- 
x ſet to half an hour after 6 in the morning, the beginning of 
eclipſe, and let the globe be turned till the index ſtands at XII. 
Woon. 
hen all thoſe places under the meridian will ſee the beginning 
he eclipſe, at their noon ; and all the places above the horizon, 
alſo fee the beginning, but at different times of their day, ac- 
ung to their diltance in longitude from the preſent meridian. 
ſome parts of Africa on the coaſt of Guinea, to the South of 
e Verd, the beginning of the eclipſe will be barely viſible. 
asTLY, London being again brought to the meridian, and the 
index ſet to half an hour aſter 8 o'clock, the time the eclipſe 
at London, turn the globe till the index points to XII at noon: 
a all the parts above the horizon may the end of the eclipſe be 
which includes Europe, Aſia, Africa, and the Northermoſt 
$ of America; but it being morning to them, and the ſun fo 
| the horizon, obſervations made there mult be very imperteQ ; 
ſo indeed muſt it happen to all places where the ecliple is ſeen 
the horizon, 


hen this problem concerns an eclipſe of the moon, as ſhe is 
E 2 | then 


* 


_ 


% 


ward of us, 
12 hours, and the night into as many; which hours proved 


c fore, 


portional, which is the Judaic hour of the day, or night, req 


m 


— 


IN TR ODU TT ON 
then in the ſign. directly oppoſite to the ſun ; therefore dhe oy 
point of the ecliptic to the ſun's place is to be found for the q 
the moon. | 8 . 

Then the hour - index being fitted to the London time, as 
ſan, let the moon's place be brought to the meridian, and the 
elevated for her declination, and all the places where the beging 
middle, and end are viſible, may be ſeen in the ſame manner g 
eclipſes of the ſun, _ | 


Or bir WAYS BY WHICH 50 PEOPLE RECKON TIM 


The Italians begin their days at ſun-ſet. Then, 
To find the Italic hour at any given place and time, 
Find the time of ſun-ſetting for that place and time, 
Suppoſe the ſun ſets at ſeven of the clock. 
They begin to reckon from 7, and go on to 24 ; for the lu 
do not divide their days into twice 12 hours. 
Then at 7 in the morning by our 3 it would be 11 
them; and at 12 with us, it would be 17 with them ; and foe 
The Babylonians began their day at ſun-riſe. | 
To find the Babylonian hour at any time. «fi 
Find at what hour the ſur roſe at Babylon on' the given day; 


Begin to count the hours from thence, and make allowang 
the time or difference of longitude, which Babylon is to the 


The ancient Jews, in reckoning their time, divided the daji 


day unequal in extent, (except in places under the equator) al 
increaſed or decreaſed according to the ſeaſon of the year. 


* 


To find the Jewiſh hour at a given place and time, 
Find the length of the day and of the night at that time andp 
Then as the length of this day, or night, is in proportion tot 
ſo are any number of hours of that day, or night, to the fourthp 


Seamen begin their day at noon, that bein 
ſettle the preceding day's reckoning. 

Aſtronomers alſo begin, their day at noon, and reckon on 
hours, to the next day at noon. | 

Some of the truths eſtabliſhed in the preceding pages are col 
together under the two following heads of theorems and parade 
and may be uſeful to beginners as exerciſes to their memarſ 
judgment. 


g the time when! 


Gt 


SR FT 


* 
8 


O R 


TRUE ASSERTIONS. 


' 


IL. Riiirife ro LATITUDE. * 


PLACES lying under the equator have no latitude. 
Becauſe the reckoning of latitude begins at the equator. 


es. | 
becauſe the reckoning of latitude-ends at the poles. 
Going from the 'Equator towards the poles, the latitude in- 


uſes, 
ut going towards the equator the latitude diminiſhes. 


The greater the latitude is of any place, the farther it is diſtant 
n the equator, | " 


The latitude of any place is equal to the height of the pole a- 
e the horizon, 


f. The elevation of the equator above the horizon is equal to 
it the latitude wants of go degrees. i | 


. The difference of latitude of all places between the poles, muſt 
les than 180 degrees. WEIS $4 


II. RelarinG To LONGITUDE. 


e no longitude. 
pecauſe the reckoning of longitfide begins at that meridian. 


. Thoſe places have the greateſt longitude which lye under the 
ridian, oppoſite to that where longitude begins. 


Io. Two places cannot have a difference of longitude above 180 
rees, one being in Eaſt longitude, and the other in Weſt lon- 


ude. 


* 


h a 2 
Mer latitude nor longitude. 


12. No 


ü WT IA OD ron of 


Under the poles of the equator the latitude is greateſt, or is 9g0 


11. That place under the equator cut by the firſt meridian has 


4, 


OGRAPHICAL THEOREMS, - 


. Places lying under that meridian which is accounted the firſt, | 


Rl beds od. a06K © 


- 3 — ͤ —— — Os 2m... ages. — 
— a — — ́— — 


— — 
— — 


—— 
oe - 


Pp 


TT RODUCTION 
ſun due Zouth at noon ; and thoſe who live to the South of 
torrid zone, ſee the ſun due. North at noon. 


37. Thoſe Who ſee the ſun to the Northward, have their had 
projected Southward ; hut when they ſee the ſun to the Sache 
2 ſhadows are projected North ward. | 


38. The leſs the latitude, the ſhorter i is the mid- ** ſhadow; 
the greater the latitude, the longer is the mid-day ſhadow d 
fame -perſon, when he is without the torrid zone: But withi 
torrid zone, the nearer the ſun is to the zenith, the ſhorter 6 
ſhadow at noon 3 and the farther from zenith at noon, the long 
the ſhadow ; And this dilinQips holds good everp+whergy 


39. In all places ſituate in a Pe ſphere, the ci of * 
diurnal motion runs always parallel, or nearly ſo, to the re 
horizon of ſuch place, which i is only at the poles. 


40. In all places fituate in a a right ſphere, the. circle of thel 
diurnal motion is perpendicular, or nearly ſo, to the reſpedine 
rizon of ſuch places, which mult be at the equator. 


41. In all places ſituate i in an oblique ſphere, the circle q 
fun's diurnal motion is always oblique punto, or cutteth the hon 
of ſuch place at unequal angles: This oblique poſition anf 
very place between the equator and the poles. 


42. On the days of the equinoxes only, the ſun riſes in thel 
point of the horizon, and ſets in the Welt point, to every plas 
the earth. 


43. To places in North latitude, the ſun riſes to the Ne 
of the Eaſt, and ſets to the Northward of the Weſt, from thel 
nal to the autumnal equinox ;-and riſes to the Sonthward & 
Eaſt, and ſets to the Southward of the Weſt, from the time of 
autumnal equinox to that of the vernal. 


44. The. farther places are removed from the Equator, not! 
paſſing the polar circles, the greater is the Sun's amplitude, ({t 
161): And the greateſt ä is on the days of the Summer 
Winter ſolſtices. 


45. In all places of the torrid zone, the mornin and 
twilight ĩs leaſt; in the frigid Zones it is greateſt z and in the te 
rate zones the twilight is a medium between the other two. 


* AY. BF TY a ü . - 6 9 
” Tix . ad ” * * . — - „ N N 
T R 6 DU e fr 1 6 N. 
1 N * vw [ * . * 1 
0 , 7.4 ' p . W 
ch of ooo 0 in ee Bf I 547, 


\ Short Abridgement of Ancient Hiſtory © 
e 
ho prepare the Reader for entering upon the modern hiſtory} 
ow of and deſeription of each country in particular, it will be ne- 
to give ſome account of their ſituation in ancient times j whict 
Ky ball do, by the following account of the moſt remarkable events 
* i have happened fince the creation. 9 * 
e moſt ancient records we haye are thoſe in the ſcriptures. No 
rian, either Greek or Roman, comes near the antiquity of Moſes 4 
are their accounts in the ſmalleſſ to be compared with 
either for accuracy or ility, though we ſhould pur divine 
ration entirely out of the queſtion TO | 
je ſcripture mentions no very remarkable event which happen- 
the { om the fall of man to the flood ; only, that, during this period, 
edire vorld advanced to an extraordinary height of wickedneſs; inſo- 
| that God himſelf would no longer bear their iniquities, but 
| oyed them at once by this terrible calamity; ſaving only one fa- 
le d from the general deſtruction 1 55 2 
dncerning this event, which 3 in the year of the; world, 
„ we have only ſome very confuſed accounts and fables in anci- 
poets and hiſtorians nor was it until long after that any hiſtory 
= which we can have any dependence commenced ; and even 
tel 3 accounts ſeem to have been entirely borrowed from di- 
revelation. h g * e | 
ie three ſons. of Noah, Shem Ham, and Japhet, being as it 
the three ſounders of the human race, it is no wonder to find; 
they ſhould be worſhipped. by their idolatrous deſcendents. 
dough the deſcendents of Shem would, no doubt, have been as 
rd of as others to pay him an idolatrons worſhip, yet, the know- 
m_ of the true God, continuing in that family, all along prevent- 
dem; and we never hear of any kind of homage being paid to 
by the Jews ; bnt Japhet, among the Greeks, and Ham, among 
Egyptians, were long revered as deities, under the names of Fa-. 
and Zupiter- Ammon. Re 4 a 
e firſt kingdom mentioned in hiſtory, is that of Nimrod, who 
ded Babylon, about 2640 years before Chriſt. | | 
ot long after, the foundation of Nineveh was laid by fur 3 
n Egypt, the four governments of Thebes, Theri, Memphis, 
Tanis, began to aſſume ſome appearance of form and regularity. 
t theſe events ſhould have happened ſo ſoon aſter the delugeg 
ever ſurprize it may have occalioned to the l arned, ſome cen- 
* 430, need not in the ſmalleſt degree excite the wondey of the 
ent age, We have ſeen, from many inſtances, the powerful ef- 
of the principles of population, and how ſpeedily mankind in- 
7 when the generative faculty lyes under no reſtraint. - The 
| — of Mexico and Peru were incomparably more extenſive 
ſe of Babylon, RS os Egypt, during this early age s 


* 


* 


=» 2 
P , 8 
} * = 
, 1 "I 4 n = 
1 G 
4 ” 
4 AE , 
'& 
= 


* 
* 


themſelves to oppreſs and deſtroy one another. Chader lacie 


queror. His force, however, muſt not have 


the founder of a mighty empire. We are not, however, tomy 


Diodorus Sieulus, a Greek writer, mentions many ſucecſie 


| gyprians. The country was divided into ſeveral diſtridts oft 


from the Egyptians,” that many of the arts, both of ele gane 


9 e : 
\ 2 0 * 


„% IN TR ODU CTI Oo 
and yet theſe kingdoms are not ſuppoſed to have exiſled fo! 
turies before the diicovery of America by Columbus. Ay mai 
continued to multiply on the earth, and to ſeparate. from end 
the tradition concerning the true God, was obiiterated or obley 

This qccafioned the calling of Abraham to be the fathe 
2026. choſen people. From this period the hiſtory of ancient ud 
begins a little to expand itſelf; and we learn ſeveral particula 
very conũiderable importan ee. 
Mankind bad not long been united into ſocieties beſbit 


of the Elamites, or Perſians, was already vera = LY 

ave been very coplilal 
tince, in one of theſe expeditions, Abraham, aſſiſtec only h 
houſehold, ſet upon him in his retreat, and aftet à Herceeap 
ment, recovered -all the ſpoil that had been taken. Abe 
ſoon after obliged, by a famine, to leave Canaan, the country 
God had commanded him to ſettle, and to go into Egypt 
journey gives occaſion to Moſes to mention ſome particulars wil 
gard to the Egyptians,” and every ſtroke diſcovers the .charafl 
an improved and powerful nation. The particular government 
to which this country was divided, are now united under o, 
ful prince; and Ham, who led the colony into Egypt, Wha 


that all the laws which took place in Egypt, and whieh he 
fo juſtly admired' for their wiſdom, were the work of this eany 


84. who laboured for their eſtabliſhment and perfeRion,. N 
33. the time of Jacob, the firſt principles of civil order andy 
governments ſeem to have been tolerably underſtood” amoag ts 


partments;" councils, compoſed of experienced and {ele pan 
were eſtabliſhed for the management of public affairs; grauanany 
preſerving corn were erected; and, in fine, the Egyptian 
age, enjoyed a comtnerce far from inconſiderable. 5 
though of an ancient date, deſerve our partieular attention, 


tility, have been handed down in an uninterrupted chain to ef 
dern nations of Europe. The Egyptians communicated thet 
to the Greeks ; the Greeks taught the Romans many improve 
both in the arts of peace and war; and ro the Romans, the pa 
inhabitants of Europe are indebted for their civility and rene 
The kingdoms of Babylon and Nineveh remained ſeparate e 
centuries z but we know not even the names of che Kings 
verned them, till the time of Ninus king of Nineveh, was by) 
ſptendour of his actions, reflects light on this dark hiſtory,” M 
by the ſpirit of conqueſt, he extends the bounds of his Eugen! 
Babylon to his dominion, and lays the foundation of that ann 
which, under the name of the Aﬀſyrian empire, kept Aſia es 
yoke for many ages. Re i 
The hiſtory of Europe now begins to dawn.  Javany fon a 
phet, and grandſon of Noah, is the ſtock from wen is 
known by the name of Greeks are deſtended. Javall en 


-_ 


LNTRODY CTHON 43 


If in the idands in the Weſtern coaſt of Aſia, Minor, from 
ce it was impollible that fore wanderers ſhould. not eſcape over 
Europe. To theſe firſt inhabitants ſucereded a colony from E- 

who, about the time of, Abraham, penetrated into Greece, EY 
under the name of Titans, endeavoured. to eſtabliſn mon- 


in this country, and to ĩntroduce into it the laws and civil palicy 
ic Egyptians. But the empire of the Titans ſoon fell aſunder g 
the ancient Greeks, who wete at this time the moſt rude ang 
rous people in the world, again. fel}. back into their lawlels and 
ge manner of life, Several colonies, howeyer, ſoon aſter paſſe d 
ſrom Aha into Greece, and by remaining in chat country, pro- 
d a more conſiderable alteration, in the - manners of its inhabi- 
The moſt ancient of theſe were the colonies of Inachus and 
ges; of whom the former ſettled in Argos, and the latter in 
ca, We know extremely little of Ogyges or his ſucceflors, 
poſe of Inachus endeavoured to anite the diſperſed and wandering 
eks; and their endeavours {or this purpoſe, were not altogether 
cceſsful. | . Wanne ee 
the hiſtory of God's choſen people, is the only one with which 
are much acquainted during thoſe ages. The train of curious 
Wats which occaſioned the ſettling of Jacob and bis family in that 
of Egypt of which Tannis was the capital, are univerſally 
pen. That patriarch died, according to the Septuagint OY 
ſion, 1794 years before Chriſl. I his is a pretty remark- 4 
zra with reſpect to the nations of heathen antiquity, and con- 
des that period of time which the, Greeks conſidered as altogether 
known, and which they have disfigured by their fabulous nar- 
Jons. | | | | 
It is a common error among writers on this ſubject, to conſider 
the nations of antiquity as being on the ſame. footing with regard 
laws, manners, and learning. Lhey find ſome nations extremely 
e and barbarous, and henee they conclude that all were in that ſi- 
tion, They diſcover. others acquainted with many arts, and 
& they inſer the wiſdom of the firſt ages. There appears, how 
r, to have been as much difference bet wen the inhabitants of the 
cient world, in points of art and refinement, as between the civi- 
ed kingdoms of modern Europe, and the Indians in America, or 
groes on the eoaſt of Africa. Noah was, undoubtedly, acquaint- 
wich all the arts of the antediluvian world; theſe: he would com- 
unicate to his children, and they again would hand them down to 
er poſterity, Thoſe nations therefore who ſettled. neareſt the ori- 
nal ſeat of mankind, and who had the beſt opportunities to avail 
emlelves of the knowledge which their great anceſtor was poſſeſſed 
early formed themſelves into regular ſocieties, and made con- 
mw improvements in the arts which are moſt ſubſervient to hu- 
ban life, | oa Ka | 
Agriculture appears to have been known in the firſt ages of the 
orid, Noah cultivated the vine in the time of Jacob, the fig- 
de and the alapnd were well known in the land of Canaan; and 
c 1aſtruments of huſbandry, long before the diſcovery of them. in 
"e<ce, ate often mentioned in the ſacred writings. It is hardly to 
luppoled that the ancient cities, both in Aſia and Egypt, whoſe 
F 2 9 | ſoundation, 


+ why tne pig ney yg: Nations who live 
rage only, lead a wandering life, 250 £4200 ther 
cities. Commerce naturally follows agriculture; and ting 
deen. ve the lp by which i was incdnce ang | 
5 tions, we may, in facred writ, ale 
_ - progreſs which had been made in it duri 2 triarchaſt 
=, We knaw, from from the mT of civil ſociety, commercig) 
patents? men mult be pretty onder ble before the 1 
| tals come to be conſidered as the medium of trade; ang" yett 
3 was the caſe even in the days of Abraham. It appears, hi 
| | m the relations which fabliſh this fact, that the uſe of my 
d not been of an ancient date; it had no mark to after 
weight or fineneſs i and in a contract for a buryin place, in excl 
for E pich Abram gave filver; the metal is wei AT in preſence o& 
the people. But às commerce ſmproved, 2nd bark ins of this 
became more common, this 8 went into 400 and the qu 
tity of ſilver was aſcertained by a particular mark, which favedi 
trouble of weighing i it. But al. does not appear to have taken pl 
till the time of Jacob, the ſecond from Abram. I 
which we read of in his time, was a piece of money, ſtampel 
the figure of a lamb, and of a preciſe and ſtated value. It 
from the hiſtory of Joſeph, that the commerce between diFerent 
tions was by" this time regularly carried on. The Iſmaelite 
Midianites, who bought him of-his brethren, were travelling! 
chants, reſembling the modern caravans, who carried ſpices, | 
mes, and other rich commodities, from their own country 
Egypt. The ſame obſervations may be made from the book of 
who, according to the beſt chronology, was a native of A 
ix, and cotemporary with Jacob. He ſpeaks of the roads of TW 
and Saha, 5. c. of the caravans who Tet out from thoſe cities to | 
bia. If we refle& that the commodities of this country wee a 
| the luxuries than the conveniences of life, we ſhall have rea 
* conclude, that the countries into which ae ove were ſent —_ 
particularly Egypt, were conſiderably im arts aud 
ment ; for people do not think of luxuries until ac the wb 
made high advancement among them. "$I 
' Th ſpeaking of commerce, we ought carefully to dif 
the ſpecies of it which is carried on by land, or inland 
and that which is carried on by ſea; which laſt kind of craſſc . 1s 
later in its origin, and flower in its ſs. Thoſe who 
the coaſt of Paleſtine, were the firſt people of the world anzong a 
navigation was made ſubſervient to commerce they were dnl 
ed by a word which in the Hebrew tongue ſignifies merchant, 
are the ſame nation afterwards known to the Greeks by the name 
Phenicians. Inhabiring a barren and ungrateful foil,” by 
| ſelves to better their ſituation by cultivating the arts. "vor 
was their capital object; and with all the writers of Pagan ant 
ty, they paſs for the inventors of whatever is ſubſer vient t t. 
he time of Abraham they were regarded as a powerful bation f! 
aritime commerce is mentioned by Jacob in his laſt e 


* 


— 


9 3 


in r 1 0 De rtron Hy: 
den: and if we may believe Herodotus in a matter of fuch res -. 
antiquity, the Phenicians had by this time navigated the coats 
reece; and carried 6f the daughter of Inachus. 1 
de arty of agriculture, commerce, and navigation, ſuppoſe the - / 
riedge of ſeveral others: aſtronomy, for inſtanee, or a know- 
+ of the ſituation and revolutions of the heavenly bodies, is ne» 
ry both to agriculture and navigation 3 that of working bn 
ommerce : and ſo of other arts. In fact, we find that before * 
h of Jacob, ſeveral nations were fo well acquainted with the re- | 
tions of the moon, as to meaſare by them the duration of their 
It had been an univerſal cutom among all the nations of an- 
ity, as well as the Jews, to divide time into the portion of a week, 
even days: this undoubtedly” aroſe from the tradition with re- 
j ro the origin of the world. It was natural for thoſe nations 
led a paſtoral life, or who Tived under a ſerene ſky; to obſerve 
the various appearances of the moon were compleated nearly in 
weeks: hence the divifion of a month. Thoſe people agen 8 
lived by agriculture, and who had got among them the divi- 
of the month, would naturally remark, that twelve of theſe 
ght back the ſame temperature of the air, or the ſame ſeaſons : 
e the origin of what is called the lunar year, which has 8 
re taken place in the infancy of ſcience, This, 
obſervation of the fixed ſtars, which ſtudy, as we learn from the 
of Job, muſt have been very ancient, naturally paved the way 
de diſcovery of the ſolar year, which at that time would be 
ght an immenſe improvement in aſtronomy. But with 
oſe branches of knowledge which we have mentioned, it 1s to 
membered that they were peculiar to the Egyptians and a few 
dns of Aſia. Europe offers a frightful ſpectacle during this pe- 
Who could believe that the Greeks, who in later ages be- 
the patterns of politeneſs and every elegant art, were 
om a ſavage race of men, traverſing the woods and wilds, in- 
ing the rocks and caverns, a wretched prey to wild animals, 
ſometim-s to one another? This, however, was no more than 
was to be expected. The deſcendants of Noah, who removed 
great diſtance from the plains of Sennaar, loſt all connections 
the civilized part of mankind. Their poſterity became Rill more 
ant; and the human mind was at length ſunk into an abyſs of 
Ye and wretchedneſs. . | 
nn f e might naturally expect that, from the death of Jacob; and as 
i510 dvance forward in time, the hiſtory of the great empires of E- 
and Aſſyria would emerge from their obſcurity : this, how- 
Is far from being the caſe z we only get a glimpſe of them, 
they diſappear entirely for many ages. After tho reign of Ni- 
who ſucceeded Ninus in the Affyrian throne, we find an 
lining blank in the hiſtory of this empire for no leſs than 
et the nundred years, The filence of ancient hiſtory on this ſubject 
1 . W, attributed to the ſoftneſs and effeminacy of the ſucceſ- 

0 aus, whoſe lives afforded no events worthy of narration. 
— commotions are the great themes of the hiſtorian, while 

and bappy reigns of'n wiſe prince paſs unobſerved and 


Fr 


* 
* 


0 


, = to-Cecrops, who landed in Greece, with an Egyptian « 
- batants.. From the mititutions which Cecrops eſtabliſhed ama 


£ -before bis, arrival. The laws of marriage, which tew nations 
-barbarous as to be ether unacquainted with, were net 


in the kingdom of Attica, purſued the ſame, betete 


2d endeavoured, by wiſe inſtitutions, to bridle the keen pal 
onde peoples is bs ble + ON: 
Whilſt. theſe princes uſed-their endeavours for.civilizing thi 


ner of Greece, the other kingdoms, into which this country, 4 
_ natural boundaries of rocks, mountains, and rivers, is divided 
kat 
which he might unite in one plan of politics the ſeveral wal 
teſline diviſions which muſt rendes them a prey to one a 


— 


pod about this time to have mounted the throne of 
By his aſſiduity and attention, the civil and military ea 
of the tans received very conſiderable improvement 
in the time of Seſoſtris and his immediate ſucceſſors, was inal 
babilfty the moſt powerſul kingdom upon earth, and accordy 
the belt calculation, is ſuppoſed to have contained twenty, 
Nun of inhabitants. But ancient hiflory often excites, withou 
tiſying our curioſity.z for from the reign of Seſoltris ty 
of Boccharis, we know not even the names of the inte 
Princes. If we judge, however, from collateral cireumltancs 
country muſt ſtill have continued in a very flouriſhing/conditiog 
Egypt continued to pour forth her colonies into diſtant nations 
then, that feat of learning and politeneſs, owes its found 


and endeavoured to civilize the rough manners of its orig 
Athenians, it is eaſy (o infer in what ſituations they mull ha 
in Greece. Mankind, like the beaſts of the field, were propd 


bynctidental rencounters, and without all knowledge of thoſetoy 
-; they owed their ge ion, Cranaus, who ſucceeded Cat 


Which had been already peopled by colonies from Egypt 
Eaſt, began to aſſume ſome. appearance of form and regular 
engaged Amphiction, one of thoſe uncommon gehiuile 
appear in the world for the benefit of the age in whichl 
live, and the admiration of polterity, to think of ſome expeara 


dent kingdoms of Greece, and thereby deliver them fromtht 


to the firſt enemy who might think proper to invade them. 
reflections he communicated to the kings or leaders of the al 
territories, ard by his eloquence, and addreſs engaged two! 
to unite together for their mutual preſervation, 1, TWo deputies 
each of theſe cities afſembled twice a year at Thermopyle,.a 
med what, after the name of its founder, was called the A 
tionic counſel. In this aſſembly, whatever related to dd gu 
tereſt of the confederacy was diſcuſſed and finally determines 
phĩction likewiſe, ſenſible that thoſe political connections ae We 
lafting which are ſtrengthened by religion, committed the 
phictions the care of the temple at Delphi, and of the hen 
from the dedications of thoſe who conſulted the oracle hav 
amaſſed in it. This aſſembly, conſtituted on ſuch ſold ſouaci 
was the great ſpring of action in Greece, while that count 
ſerved its independence; and by the union which it iwſpired 


IN RO DU Oro  &# 
Week, enabled chem to! defend their liberties Sprit all the 
bf the Perſian empire. e 
gering the circumſtances of the age in Which it was inſtituted, 
mphi@ionic council is perhaps the moſt remarkable political 
ment which. ever took place among mankind. The Creek 
"who formerly had no connection with one another, except by 
Al inroads and hoſtilities, ſoon began to act with concert, and 
lertake diſtant expeditions for the general intereſt of the com- 
3 to ty. The firſt of theſe was the oblcure expedition of the na" 
- nants, in which all Greece appears to have been concern · 
ces The object of the Argonauts was to open the commerce of the 
ton © ſea, and to eſtabliſh colonies in the adjacent country of Col- 
The ſhip Argo, which was the admiral of the fleet, is the on- 
particularly taken notice of; thongh we learn from Homer, 


bon. The fleet of the Argonauts was, from the ignorance of 
who conducted it, long tofled about upon different coalts. The 
at ſome diſtance from the mouth of the Euxine fea, oceaſion- 
reat labour: they ſent :orward a light veſſel, which paſſed 
gh, but returned with the loſs of her rudder. | This is expreſſed 
e fabulous language of antiquity, by their ſending ont 4 bird 
returned with the loſs of its tail, and may give us an idea of 
legorical obſcurity in which the other events of this expedition 
volved. The fleet, however, ax length arrived at Eon, the 
al of Colchis, after performing à voyage, which * 
nean condition of the naval art during this age, was not 

derable than the circum-navigation of rhe world by our modern 


rerers. From this expedition, to that againſt ens 1218. 


h was undertaken to recover the fair Helena, a queen of 
1 2, who had been carried off by Paris, fon of the Trojan king, 
ty. 4 reeks mult have made a wonderfal progreſs in power and opu- 
ies : no leſs than twelve hundred veſſels were employed in this 


ge, each of which, at a medium, contained upwards of a hun- 
men. Theſe vellels, however, were but halt decked; and it 
not appear that iron entered at all into their conſtruction. If 


Law, an inſſrument fo neceſſary to the carpenter, a modern muſt 
but a mean notion of the ſtrength or elegance of this fleet. 
acre appears originally to have been great reſemblance be- lg 
the political ſituation of the different kingdoms of Greece, p 
ere governed each by a king, or rather a chieſtain, who was 


and leader in time of war, their judge in time ot peace, and who 
* Iced in the adminiſtration of their religious ceremonies. This 
nerd ce, however, was far from being abſolute, ' In each ſociety there 
L a number of other leaders, whoſe influence over their particu» 
» lans or tribes was not leſs confiderable than that of the king o- 


his immediate followers, Theſe eaptains were often at war with 
Omer, and ſometimes with their ſovereign. | Such a ſituation 
in all reſpecis extremely unfavourable; each particular fate be- 


MP Sioc, The hiſtory of Arhens affords us an ekatnple'of the 
ra kick theſe States, Which, for want of union, were 


* * 
'P 
= 


dther ancient writers, that ſeveral ſail were employed in this e- 


dd to theſe circumſtances, that the Greeks had not the uſe of 


in miniature what the whole country had been before the time - 


CY 


ere 
Gr I 
— 254 „ * 


+ 


— 
= =o 
. 9 


% 


rr OS 
» of e 1 
— Eee OO . — * 6 * 
* * 
= 
=” 


 #+X&*K0 0D v @* 1-0/6 
e try rms nel 
ably 


of the influence which his perſonal character, Unfted to 


 - thenians into three diſtin claſſes, viz. nobles, artiſans, and bu 


The * of Thebes, another of the Grecian Statch 
about t 


; a 


wr riſhing reputation by his exploits of valour and abilks 
ſaw the inconveniences to which his country, from being d 
into twelve diſtricts, was expoſed, and he concerved, that 


authority with which he was inveſted, had univerſally procure 
he might be able to remoye them. For this purpoſe he endeay 
to maintain and even to increaſe his popularity among the jul 
and artiſans: he detached, as. much as poſſible, «the diſhes ; 
from the leaders who commanded them: he aboliſhed thed 
which had been eſtabliſhed in different parts of Attica, and g 
one council-hall common to all the Athenians. 'Theſeus, hoy 
did not truſt ſolely. to the force of political regulations. Hel 
to his aid all the power of religious prejudices ; by eſtabliſkingi 
mon rites of religion to be performed in Athens, and by it 
thither rangers from all quarters, by the proſpect of protein 
privileges, he raiſed this city- from an :nconliderable 
powerful metropolis. The ſplendor of Athens and Theſeas wt 
tally eclipſed that of the other villages and their particulark 
All the power of the State was united in one city, and under a 
vereign. The petty chieftains, who had formerly occaſioned bj 
confuſion, by being diveſted of all influence and conſideration 
came humble and ſubmiſſive; and Attica remained under the] 
able government of a monarch. — ys 
This ſketch of the origin of the firſt monarchy, of which 
a diſtinct account, may, without much variation, be applied 
other States of Greece. This country, however, did not long 
tinue under the government of kings. Theſeus had divided} 


men. In order to abridge the exorbitant power of the noble 
beſtowed many privileges on the two other ranks of perſons. 1 
plan of politics was followed by his ſucceſſors ; and the lower 
of the Athenians, partly from the countenance of their Jon 
and partly from the progreſs of arts and manufactures, which 
them an opportunity of acquiring property, became. cou 
1995: able and independent. Upon the death of Codrus, « pl 
great merit, the citizens, under pretence of finding no d 
of filling the throne of that monarch, who had devoted hut 
death for the ſafety of his people, aboliſhed the power 
proclaimed that none but Jupiter ſhould be king of Ae, 
revolution in favour of liberty was ſs much the mores 
979+ able, as it happened almoſt at the fame time that the Jem 
came unwilling to remain under the government of the nf 
and deſired a mortal ſovereign, that they might be AA 
nations. | 


ſame time, aſſumed the republican form. Nest 
before the Trojan war, Cadmus, with a colony from FR 
founded this city, which from that time had been govern 
The laſt ſovereign being overcome in ſingle combat, by yy 
ing prince, the Thebans aboliſhed the regal power z bub 


# 


 TwvTRODUCTLON © 
and Epaminondas, a period of ſeven hundred years; 
— — of the republican ſpirit. Other ei - 


elves into republics. But the revolutions of Athens and Spar- 
50 rival States, which by means of the ſuperiority they acqui« 
gave the tone to the manners, genius, and politics of the Greeks, 
e our principal attention. Ihe Athenians,” by abolilting the 
of king, did not entirely ſubvert the regal authority i they , 
iſhed a ppt who, under the. name of Ar- &: | 
tic 


was inveſted with almoſt the ſame rights which their — 
0 
was too lively an image of royalty for a free State. After it 


ed In time, however, thev became ſenſible that the are 


of Codrus, they endeavoured to leſſen its diguity, not by a- 
ging its power, but by ſhortening its duration. he firſt period 
ed ſor the continuance of the archonſhip in the ſame hands, 
ree years. But the deſire of the Athenians for a more perſeck 
n of freedom than had hirherto been eſtabliſhed, increaſed in 
preion to the liberty they enjoyed. They again called out _ | 
freſh reduction of the power of their archons ; and it * 
t length determined that nine annual magiſtrates ſhould be ap- 
ed for this office, choſen by the people, and accountable to 
for their conduct at the expiration of their office. = 
written laws had been as yet enacted in Athens, and it was 
ſible that the ancient cuſtoras of the realm, which were natural - 
poſed to be in part aboliſhed, by the ſueceſſive changes in the 
nment, ſhould ſufficiently reſtrain the tumultuary ſpirits of the 
tans, in the firſt flutter of their independence. Tliis engaged 
fiſer part of the State, who began to preſer any ſyſtem of go - 
nent to their preſent anarchy aud-contuſion; to caſt their eyes 
raco, a man of an auſtere but virtuous. diſpoſition, as the fitteſt 
for compoſing a ſyſtem of law, to bridle the furious and un- 
manners of their countrymen. Draco undertook the office, but 
ted it with ſo much rigour, that in the words of an ancient 
jan, „His laws were written with blood, and not with ink.“ 
was the indiſcriminate puniſhmeat- of every offence, and the 
of Draco were found to be a remedy worſe than the diſeaſe. 
rs again returned into confuſion. and diſorder, and remain» 
till the time of Solon. The gentle manners, diſintereſted: ** 
and wiſdom by which this ſage was diſtingniſhed, pointed 
but as the only character adapted to the molt: important of all 
„ the giving laws to a free people, Solon, though this em- 
nent was aligned him by the unanimous; voice of his, country, 

deliberated whether he ſhould undegtake it. At length, how- 

he was determined by motives of public utility, preferable 

| conſiderations of private eaſe; ſafety, and reputation; and 
brit ſiep of his legiſlation was to aboliſh all the laws of Draco, 

{© thoſe relating to murder. He next proceeded to-new-model / 
blitical law; and his eſtabliſhments on this head, remained a- 

the Athenians, while they prłeſerved their liberties. He di- 

the citizens into ſour elaſſes, adeording to the wealth which 


poſſeſſed, and the pooreſt 7 he rendered altogether * | 
| 8 


[i 


* 


FGreece, after the examples of Thebes and Athets,feretted = 


continued therefore three hundred and thirty-one years in the _ 


j 


4! 


11 


1 


< * 88 EY va 2 r Os 4 5 


4 — EE Ee. Hs ts a 
o gy $a 7 þ 
: 1 
Yr 
: 
- 


* 3 — 8 
Wich this view, all forts of luxury, alt arts of elegance on . 
J things in thorr, which had —— ( a TIL 
4 ten the minds rhe Spartans, was abſolutely proſuribel. tar 
; F 

ta the more advanced — . | pe 
© were duly accuſtomed to the moſt paintul exercifes. To tie tor: 
4 tans alone war was a relaxation, rather than a hardfhig, and! Ene 
I belaved im in wich a ſpirit of which none bur 2 8 


form a conception. 
But in order to ſee the effect of theſe — and 96 
—_— EE PANS we: muſt now! 


the diſſolution of — government, the — 
brated for the wiſdum cf their laws and political — 


for the power of their arms. The great empire of Affi l 
which had long diſappeared, becomes again an ahjedt dl * 
6—... * 


F's 


INTRODUCTION * 
ef ns Greg Sardanapalus, the laſt emperor of 


p in his palace with his women and cunuchs, fell into contempt 
his ſubjects. The governors of his provinces, to whom he had 
z ere N 
of this opportunity their own on the rams 
ir maſter' s power. Arbaces, governor of Media, and Belefis, 
nor of Babylon, conſpired againſt their ſovereign, ſet fire to 
fe rwo ki . fomerimes united under one prince, and fore» - © 7 


governed each by a particular ſovereign, maimarned the chief 
a Aſia, till Cyrus the Great reduced this quarter of the — 
under the Perſian yote. 

de taſte for the and i ſeems to have been the 


ſt is five hundred fert in height, 
forry broad each way at borrows. It was à ſuperſticion 
people, derived from the earlieſt times, that even after 
ſoul continued in the body as long as it remaned uncorrupted. 
e proceeded the cuſtom of embalming, or of throwing into the 
| body, fuck. vegetables as experience had diſcovered to be the 
teſt prefervatives againſt putrefadtion. The pyramids were erec- 
with the fame view. In them the bodies of the Egyptian kings 
concealed. This expedient, together with embulming, as theie 
rſtitious monarchs conceived, would inevitably ſecure a fate, and 
fartahle retreat for their ſouls after death. From what we read * 
e walls of Babylon, the temple of Belus, and other works of A 
Eat, and from what travellers have recorded of the pyramids, 
pears that indeed they were ſuperb and magmiticent ſtructures, 
torally devoid of elegance. The orders of architecture were not 
known, nor even the conſtructing of vaults. The arts, in which 
e nations, next to architecture, principally excelled, were ſculp- 
and embroidery As to the ſciences, they had all con- 
ed to beſtow their principal attention on aſtronomy. does 
appear, however, that they made great progreſs in explaining 
cauſes of the phenomena of the univerſe, or indeed in any ſpe- 
of rational and found philoſophy. To demonitrare rhis to an 
gent reader, it is fufficient to obſerve, that according to the 
imony of ſacred and profane writers, the abfurd! reveries of ma- 
and altrojogy, which always decreaſe in proportion to the ad- 
cement of true ſcience, were in high eſteem among them, during 
arelt periods of their government. The countries which they 
pied, were extremely fruitful, aud afforded! without much la- 
ir all the neceſſuries, aud even luxuries of life. 19 
G 2 


another day would have put in his poſſeſſion what Cher : 


* with two million one hundred thouſand men, and being 


quent misfortunes of that nation are to be attributed Thy 


Important and powerful), rendered himſelf the abſolute mal 
333, 


* 


30 INT ROD UCTIOW 
been accuſtomed to a civilized and poliſhed life in great eit 
circumſtances had tainted their manners with'effermnacy anda 
tion, and rendered them an eaſy prey to the Perſians,” a 
merging from barbarity; and of conſequence, brave and 
his was (till more eaſy in the infancy of the military any 
ſtrength and courage were the only circumſtances which g 
advantage to one nation over another, when, properiy 
there were no fortified places, which, in modern times, haw 
diſcovered to be ſo uſeful in ſtopping the progreſs of a victorian 
my, and when, the event of a battle commonly decided te 
ay empire. | 4 LE 
The monarehs who ſucceeded Cyrus, gave an 
Greeks to exerciſe theſe virtues, which the freedom of their 
ment had created and confirmed. Sparta remained under 
fluence of Lycurgns's-inſtitutions : Athens had juſt recoveredl 
the tyranny of the Piſiſtratidæ, a family who had trampled 
Jaws of Solon, and uſurped the ſupreme power. Such 
fituation, when the luſt of univerſal empire, which never fails 
ment the breaſt of tyrants, led Darius to ſend: forth his 
% rous armies into Greece. But the Perfians/wetenok 
thoſe invincible ſoldiers, who under Cyrus had conquered4 
Their minds were enerrated by luxury and ſervitude, Athay 
the contrary, teemed with great men, whoſe minds were nobl 
mated by the late recovery of their freedom. Miltiades, in the 
of Marathon, with ten thonſand Athenians, overcame the 
army of a hundred thouſand foot, and ten thouſand cavalry 
countrymen, Themiſtocles and Ariſtides, the firſt celebrated! 
abilities, the ſecond for his virtue, gained the next honours 


general. te 
Xerxes, the ſon of Darius, came in perſon" into 


where defeated by ſea and land, eſcaped to Aſia in a fiſhing 
Such was the ſpirit of the Greeks. ff 
- But though the Perſian war concluded glorionlly i 
#'3' Greeks, it is, in a great meaſure, to this war, that thel 
came haughty after their victories: delivered from the commt 
my, they began to quarrel with one another: their quarre 
fomented by Perſian gold, of which they had acquired eon 
make them deſirous of more. Hence proceeded the famous Fe 
neſian war, in which the Athenians and Lacedemonian 
451. as principals, and drew after them the other States of bi 
They continued to weaken themſelves, by theſe inteſtine d 
till Philip, king of Macedon, (a country till this time little® 
but which, by the active and crafty genius of this prince n 


Greece, by the battle of Cheronæa. But this/conquet® 
of the firſt we meet with in hiſtory, which did net deen 
the event of a battle Philip had laid his ſchemes ſo de Vl 
bribery, promiſes, and intrigues, gained over ſuch a number H 
fiderable perſons in the ſeveral States of Greece to his in 


F. 
i: 
4) 


SS ta 35 


EST + 


8 
2 


r 


SA ES 5 


= 


INT ROD WU CTITONN 13 

1 him. The Greeks had loſt that virtue, which was the baſis 
ir confederacy. Their popular governments ſerved only to 
ſanction to their licentiouſneſs and corruptien. The principle 
in moſt of their States, were bribed into the fervice-of Phi- 

d all the eloquence of «a Demolthenes,: aſſiſted by truth and 
„was unequal to the mean, but more ſeductive arts of his ap- 
its, who, by flattering. the people, uſed the ſureſt method, of 
ing their affections. | . 5 


lip had propoſed to extend the boundaries. of his empire be . 


the narrow limits of Greece. But he did not long ſurvive the 
of Cheronæa. Upon his deceaſe, his ſon Alexander was cho- 
neral againſt the Perſians, by all the Grecian States, except 


Ithenians and Thebans. Theſe, eſpecially the latter, made an 


for liberty; but Thebes was taken, and the inhabitauts ter- 


ſlaughtered by Alexander. Secure on the ſide of Greece, he 


it on his Perſian expedition, at the head of thirty chouſand foot, 


Eve thouſand horſe, With this army he conquered the whole 


of Darius, in three pitched battles; over-ran and ſubdued; not 
the countries then known to the Greeks, but many parts of In- 
the very names of which had never reached an European ear z 
don after this rapid career of victory and ſucceſs, died at 
lon. His captains, after ſacrificing all his family to their 
tion, divided among them his dominions. 9 4. | 
om the time of Cyrus to that of Alexander, all the arts were 
d to the higheſt pitch of perfection. Though the Eaſtern na · 
had raiſed magnificent and ſtupendous ſtructures, the Greeks 
the firſt people in the world, who in their works of architec- 


. 
T7 


added beauty to magnificence, and elegance to grandeur, 
temples of Jupiter Olympus, and the Ephelian Diana, are the 
monuments of good taſte, They were erected. by the Grecian 


dies, who ſettled in Aſia minor, before the reign of Cyrus, 
as, the Athenian, is the firit ſculptor whoſe works have 46%, 
immortal. Zeuxis Parrhafius and Limantheus, during the ſame 
firlt diſcovered the power of the pencil, and brought painting 
rfection. Compoſition, in all its various branches, reached a 
e of perfection in the Greek language, of which a modern rea- 
an hardly form an idea. Aſter Homer, the tragic poets A. 


us, Sophocles, and Euripides, were the firſt conſiderable im- 


ers of poetry, Herodotus gave ſimplicity and elegance to pro» 
writings. Iiocrates gave it cadence and harmony, but it was 
o Thucydidus and Demoſthenes, to diſcover the full force ot 
reek tongue, It was not however in the finer arts alone that 
recks excelled. Every ſpecies of philoſophy was cultivated a- 
g them with the utmoſt ſucceſs. Not to mention Socrates, his 
diſciples, Plato, Ariſtotle, and Xenophon, may for ſtrength 
aloning, jultneſs of ſentiment, and propriety of expreſſion, be 
on a tooting with the writers of any age or country. Experi- 
indeed, in a long courſe of years, has taught us many ſecrets 
prure, with which theſe. philoſophers were unacquaiated, and 
In no ſtrength of genius could divine. But whatever ſome vain 
des in learning may pretend, the moſt learned and ingenious 
th in France and in England, have acknowledged the ſu- 
periority 


— * 


Don 8 
"I "FP E 4 


1 IEP 3 


— — — — 


8 a Za BA * N 
4 4 uk 8 C * : þ Ba, 
OO OO ID Wy WEE x PETE rn DS en re > ns —ͤͤ——ꝓä—ẽ ⸗1œ.ë. Ä. we — 


*** + hs 


as — — — 


— — 


„ VN'T'R OD U CT: 1700 


of the Greek philoſophers, and have ' reckoned. the 
ppy in ing their turn of thinking, and manner of exe 
Bur the Greeks were not leſs diſtinguiſhed for their aQivethy 
their ive talents, as appears from the number of their g 
Rarcſmen and warriors War was firſt reduced into a ſcience 
Greeks. Their toldiers fought from an aff tion to their ti 
and an ardor for glory, and not from a dread of their ſuper 
the cauſe of which was the wiſe laws which Amphiction, Stk 
Lyecurgus, had eitabliſhed But we muſt now leave this nation 
turn our attention to the Roman affairs, which are ſtill mo 
ing, both on their own account, and from the relation in 
they Rand to thoſe of modern Europe x 
Romulus, the founder of the Roman Rate, was at fil 
' 733 Jeader of a few lawleſs and wandering banditti. Hu & 
tion was 3 martial ; and the political ſlate of Italy, & 
into à number of ſmall but independent diſtricts, afforded a 
keld for the diſplay of military talents. He was continua 
broiled with one or other of his neighbours, and war was the 
employment by which he and his companions expeRed not u 
condud d 


| 


from that very eircumſtance which ruins and der 
other kingdoms. If the enemies, with which he contended 
by means of the art or arms they employed, any conlideraby 
vantage, Romulus immediately adopted that practice, or the 
that weapon, and improved the military ſyſtem of the Romany 
tze united experience of all their enemies. We have an exam 
both theſe maxims, by means of which the Roman State arm 
fuch a pitch of grandeur, in the war with the Sabines.” Rat 
having conquered that nation, not only united them to the Kon 
but finding their buckler preferable to the Romans, inſtantly1 
aſide the latter, and made uſe of the Sabine buckler in fight 
gainſt other States. Though principally attached to war, he'd 
neglect the civil policy of his infant - kingdom. He 
tuted what was called the ſenate, a court originally com 
hundred perſons, diſtinguiſhed for their wiſdom and expernen 
enacted laws for the adminiſtration of juſtice, and for bridſ 
fierce and unruly paſſions of his followers : and after a Jong® 
ſpent in promoting the civil or military intereſts of his en 
was, according to the beſt coujecture, treacherouſly put 0% 
SS =_ members of that ſenate which he himſelf had u 


Numa, who came next to him, eſtabliſhed the religions 
nies of the Romans, and inſpired them with that veneraum 
oath, which was ever after the ſoul of their military diſciphns 
ſucceſſors Tullus Hoſtilius, Ancus Martins, Tarquinius Prilets 
vius Tulliue, laboured each during his reign, for the gram 
Rome; bat Tarquiaius Superbus, the ſeventh and laſt f 


* 
— 


INTRODUCTION * 


obtained the crown by the-execvable murder of his father-in- 
gervius, continued to ſupport it by the moſt crueFandinfamous 
ny. I his, together wich the infolence of his ſon genus Tur- 
as, who, by diſhonouring Lucretia, a Roman lady, uffronted 
hole nation, occaſioned the expulſion of che Tarquin'fa-'/ © 
and with it the diſſolution of the regal government. A (.O 
domans however were continually engaged in war; they found 
effary to have ſome officer inveſted wich fuprems authority, 
might conduct them to the field, and regulate thein milirary 
xrizes. In the room of the kings therefore they appointed-two 
magiſtrates called Conſuls, who, without ereating che fame 
fy, ſucceeded to all the power of their ſovereigus- Le re 
was extremely favourable to the Roman grandeur. The con 
who enjoyed but a temporary power, were deſirous of gu- 
> their reign by ſome great action: each vied wich tho who ' 
rone before him, and the Romans were daily led out againſt 
new enemy. When we add to this, that the; people, naturally 
te, were inſpired to deeds of valour by every conſideration 
could excite them: that the citrzens of Rome were all foldiers,” 
ſought for their lands, their children, and their liberties, 'w 
not be ſurprized, that they ſhould, in the courſe of forme 2 
ies, extend their power all over Itaa ,.. 
de Romans now met with a powerful rival in the Carthageni - 
This State had been founded on the coaſt of the Mediterranean 
rica, ſome time before Rome, by à colony of Phenicians, and, 
ding to the practice of their mother country, they had cultiva- 
unerce and naval greatneſs-- N en 
zape, in this deſign, had proved wonderfully ſucceſsful. She 
commanded..both ſides of the mediterranean. Beſides that of 
a, which the almoſt entirely poſſeſſed, ſhe had extended herſelf 
ke Spaniſh fide, through. the Rreights. Thus miſtreſs of the 
and of commerce, ſhe had ſeized on the iſlands of Corfica/and 
nia. Sicily had difficulty to defend itſelf ; and the Ro- = 
were too nearly threatened not to take up arma. Hence 
con of hoſlilities between theſe rival States,-known in hiſtory 
ze name of Punic wars, in which the Carthaginians, wich all 
wealth and power, were an uaequal match for the Romans. 
age was 2 powerful republic, when Rome was a truckling - 
but ſhe was now become corrupt and effeminate, while Rome 
i the vigour of her political conſtitution. '- Carthage employed 
aries to carry on her wars; Rome, as we have already men- 
„ was compoſed of ſoldierss The firſt war with Carthage 
t the Romans the art of fighting on the ſea, with which they 
therto been unacquainted. A Carthaginian veſſel was wreck- 
their coalts ; they uſed it for 4 model, in three months * 
out a fleet, and the Conſul Duilius, who fought their * 
Daval battle, was victorious. It is not to our purpoſe to men- 
| the tranſactions of theſe wars. The behaviour of 
an general, may give us an idea of the fpirit which then 
ted this people. Being taken priſoner in- Africa, he is ſent 
— parole to negociate a change of priſoners. He maintains 
Ute, the prepriety of that law, which cut off from 2 


* 


64. 


- . 
— 


1 y 


Eo turn oO D vcr row 


the Carthaginian, was the moſt inflexible and dangerous, 


renees, the Alpa, and falls down upon Italy. The. dpf af N 


New Carthage, and carries it at the firſt aſſault. Upon u 
ſees her armies defeated. Hannibal, fixteen years vista 


> nians ; the other was agitated by thoſe quartels which had 


' - 
- 2 e 


"> 
* 


2 ho ſuſfered themſelves to be taken, all hopes of being 
n undd returns to a certain deatn 110 
Neither was Carthage, though corrupted, deficient in 
Ob all the enemies the Romans ever had to contend — 


ther Hamilcar had imbibed an extreme hatred againſt the Ra 
and Having ſettled: the inteſtine troubles of his country, het 
early opportunity to inſpire his ſon, though but nine years u 

fomn ſentiments. For this purpoſe he ordered à ſolemꝶ i 
to be offered to Jupiter, and leading his ſon to the altar, ald 
whether he was willing to attend Rim in his expedition agu 
Romans the courageous boy not only conſented ug 
red his father by the gods preſent, to form, him to wvidtoryyand 
him the art of conquering. That I will joyfully do, replied 
cary and with all the care of a father who loves you wn 
fear upon the altar to be an eternal enemy to the Romas 
nibal readily complied. and the ſolemnity of the ceremony 
ſacredneſt of the oath,” made ſuch an impreſſion upon , 
nothing could ever after war ds efface. . Being appdi 
220. ral at twenty-five years of age, he croſſes» the ν 


tles threatens the fall of Rotine,. Sicily-z{ides with che c 
Hieronymus, king of Syracule,'' declares aguinſt tha N 
0 and almoſt all Italy abandons them. Inithis extremity 
owed its prefervation to three great men. Fabius Maximus, 
fing popular clamour, and the military ardour of his count 
declines coming tan engagement. The ſtrength af A 
time to recover. Marcellus raiſes the ſiege of Nola, takes 
and revives the drooping ſpirits of his troops. The Romans 
red the character of theſe — men, but ſaw ſomething as 
the young Scipio. The ſucceſs of this young hero bonn 
popular opinion, that he was of divine extradtion, and held 
wich the At the age of four and - twenty e Wn 
Spain, where both his ſather and uncle loſt theirlivews 


in Africa, kings ſubmit to him, Carthage trembles in h u 


40. vain called home to defend his country. Carthage is n 
tributary, gives hoſtages; and engages never to wLkH 
war, but with the conſent of the Roman people. 

Aſter the conqueſt of Carthage, Rome had inconſiderabe! 
but great victories; before this time its wars werengreas 
victories inconſiderable. At this time the world was divide 
were, into two parts; in the one fought the Romans and C 


ſince the death of Alexander the Great. Their ſcene f 

Greece, Egypt, and the Eaſt. The States of Greece had gun 
diſengaged themſelves from a foreign yoke. They wert nm 
to three confederacies, the Etolians, Acheans, and Beau 
of theſe was an aſſociation of free cities, which had alten 
magiſtrates in common. Of them all the Etolians wes 
conſiderable. The kings of Macedon maintained that e 


1 


were molt irritated ; and hearing the fame the Roman 
called them into Greece, and overcame Philip by their afliſ- 
The victory, however, chiefly redounded to the Co 
Romans. The Macedonian e aero bong | 
recce: the cities were all declared free; but Philip became a 
to the Romans, and the States of Greece became their de- 


medy it by another ſtill more dangerous to themſelves, and 
advantageous to the Romans, As they had called the Ro- 
into Greece to defend them againſt Philip, they now eulled in 
chus, king of Syria, to defend them againſt the Romans. The 
1s Hannibal too had recourſe to the prince, who was at 
ime the moſt powerful of the Eaſt, and the ſucceffor to the do- 
as of Alexander in Aſia. But Antiochus did not follow his 
e ſo much as that of the Etolians ; for inſtead of renewing the 
in Italy, where Hannibal, from experience, judged the Ro- 
to be moſt vulnerable, he landed in Greece with a ſmall body 
ops, and being overcome without difficulty, fled over into A- 
u this war the Romans made uſe of Philip for conquering An- 
as they had before done of the Etolians for conquerin 
They now purſue Antiochus, the laſt obje& of their 
nent, into Aſia, and having vanquiſhed him by fea and 
compel him to fubmit to an infamous treaty. In theſe con- 
the Romans fill allowed the ancient inhabitants to poſſeſs 
territory; they did not even change the form of government: 
dnquered nations became the allies of the Roman people, which, 
er, under a ſpecious name, concealed the moſt fervile of all 
tions, and inferred, that they ſhould ſubmit ro whatever was 
red of them, When we reflect on theſe eaſy conqueſts, we have 
o to be aſtoniſhed at the reſiſtange which the Romans met with 
a barbarous prince, Mithridatks, king of Pontus. This moy 
+ however, had great reſources. His Lingdom, bordering on 
acceſſible mountains of Caucaſus, abounded in a race of men, 
_ were not enervated by pleaſure, and whoſe bodies were 
and vigorous, | 356 | | | 
e different ſtates of Greece and Aſia, who tom began to feel 
eight of their yoke, but had not ſpirit to ſhake ſt off, were 
ported at finding a prince, who dared to ſhew himſelf an ene - 
d the Romans, and chearfully fubmitted'to his protection. Mi- 
es, however, was compelled to yield to the ſuperior valour of 
omans. Vanquiſhed ſucceſſively by Sylla and Lucullus, 
at length ſubdued by Pompey, and ſtripped of his do- * 
ns and of his life. In Africa the Ronian arms met with equal 
Is. Marius in conquering, Jugurtha, made all ſecure in that 
* Even the barbarous Batlons beyond the Alps, began 

be weight of the Roman arme, Gallia Nafbonenfis *** 
| = reduced into a province. The Cimbri, Teutones, and nd 

orthern nations of Europe, broke int# this part of the ** 


\ 


its, The Etolians, diſcovering their firſt error, endeavoured - - 


- \ > = 
| % 
— V 


"D174 T0 D vc To 
„empire. The fame Marius, whoſe name was fo terribleinl 
. , made the North of Europe to trembls. The Barbariay 
| do their wilds and defarts, leſs formidable than the 
- gions, . But while Rome conquered the world, there fublile 
ternal war within her walls. This war had fubfilted fond 
periods of the government. Rome, after the expulſion oft 
enjoyed but a. nominal liberty, The deſcendants "of the 
ho were diſtinguiſhed by the name of Patricians, were iw 
+ Þ many odious privileges, that the people felt their Ga 
and became determined to ſhake it off. A rhoufand Wh 
this ſubje& aroſe betwixt them and the Patricians, which # 
bp in fayour of liberty. _ _ e 
: Theſe diſputes, however, were not at firſt attended with a 
gerous conſequences. The Patricians, who loved their © 
_ chearfully parted with ſome of their privileges to ſatisfy ih 
and the people, on the other band, though they obrained} 
which they might be admitted to * 4. ficſt offices of the] 
and though they had the power of nomination, always ua 
tricians. But when the Romans, by the conqueſt of foragns 
became acquainted with all their luxuries, and refinements] 
they became tainted with the effeminacy and corruption o 
courts, and ſported with every thing juſt and honourable-u 
to obtain them, the State, torn by the factions berween its ut 


and without virtue on either ſide, to keep it together, bers . 
= to its own children. Hence the bloody ſeditions of the £ 
$ which paved the way for an inextinguiſhable hatred? | 

= | nobles and commons, and made it eaſy tor any turbulent aay 


to put them in action againſt each other. The love others 
was now no more than a ſpecious name; the better for 
wealthy and effeminate to fabait to the rigours of miſtaty 
and the ſoldiers, compoſed of the dregs of the republic, 
longer citizens. They knew none but Wet commander; ut 
banner they fought, conquered and plundered; and form 
were ready to die, He might command them to imbrae tet 
in the blood of their country. They who knew no county's 
camp, and no authority but that of their general, were e 
to obey him. The multiplicity of the Roman conqueſts, 
much required their keeping on foot feveral armies at the 
retarded. the ſubverſion of the republic. Theſe armies were! 
checks upon each other. Had it not been for the ſoltiers d 
Rome would have ſurrendered its liberty to the army df Mn 
Julius Cæſar at length appears. By ſubduing the Gauls, 
ed his country the moſt uſeful conqueſt it ever made 
586. pey, his only rival, is overcome in che plains of 
| 48. | Czar vidorious appears in a moment all over es 
| Egypt, in Aſia, in Mauritania, in Spain, in Gath 
| Britain, conqueror on all ſides, he is acknowledged maler! 
| and in the whole empire. Brutus and Caſſſus thinks 
Rome her liberty, by ſtabbing him in the ſenate 
they only ſubject her to tyrants, wha without kis clement} 
r lities, were not inferior in ambition, The rehm! 
2 the hands of Mark Antony; young Cæſar Octa aua 


KY 


f 


- 


18H TRO.,D,,U,C.TL OM; ops 


1s Cxſat, v reſts it from him by by the ſea-fight at Acium; 
r no Brutus nor Caſſius to put an end to his life. The friends 
rty have killed themſelves in deſpair ; and Octavius, under 
ame of Auguſtus, and title of Emperor, remains the undiſ- 
| maſter of the empire. During theſe civil commotions, the 
ns till preſerved the glory of their arms among diſtant nations, 
ile it was unknown who ſhould be maſter at Rome, the Ro- 
were without diſpute the maſters. of the world; their military 
ine and valour aboliſhed all the remains of the Carthaginian, | 
erſian, the Greek, the Aſſyrian, and the Macedonian glory, 
ey were now only a name. No ſooner therefore was Oftayius 
hed on the throne, than embaſſadors from all quarters of the 
n world crowd to make their ſubmiſſions. Æthiopia ſues far 


the Parthians, who had been a moſt formidable enemy, court 
i | jendſhip; the Indies ſeek his alliance, Pannonia acknowledges 
4 Germany dreads him, and the Weſer receives his laws, 
* ious by ſea and land, he ſhuts the temple of Janus. Ihe — 
earth lives in peace under his power, and Jeſus Chriſt — 


into the world. | 
wing thus traced the progreſs of the Roman government, while 
jained a republic, we ſhall now ſay a few words with regard to 
rts, ſciences, and manners of that people. During the firſt 
o the republic, the Romans lived in a total neglect, or rather 
mpt of all the elegant improvements of life. War, politics, 
agriculture were the only arts they ſtudied, becauſe they were 
nly arts they eſteemed. But upon the downfal of Carthage, 
lg no enemy to dread from abroad, they began to taſte the 
of ſecurity, and to cultivate the arts. Their progreſs how- 
was 3 as in the other countries we have deſcribed. 
conquelt of Greece at once put them in poſſeſſion of every 
3 wolt rare, curious, or elegant. Aſia, which was the next 
p, offered all its ſtores 3 and the Romans, from the moſt ſimple 
c, ſpeedily became acquainted with the arts. | 
je Roman hiſtory now preſents us with a ſet of monſters, under 
name of Emperors, whole hiſtories, a few excepted, diſgrace 
a nature. They did not indeed aboliſh the forms of the Ro- 
republic, though they extinguiſhed its liberties, and while they 
practiſing the moſt unwarrantable eruelties upon their ſubjects, 
themſelves were the flaves of their ſoldiers. They made the 
d tremble, while they in their turn trembled at the army. Rome, 
the time of Auguſtus, became the moſt deſpotic empire that 
ſubſiſted in Europe. 'To form an idea of their government, we 
only recal to our mind the ſituation of Turkey at preſent. It 
no importance therefore to conſider the character of the empe- 
lince they had no power but what aroſe from a mercenary 
mug army, nor to enter into a detail with regard to the tranſac- 
ot the court, which were directed by that caprice, cruelty and 
tion, which univerſally prevail under a deſpotic government. 
v It 15 faid that the Roman republic conquered the world, it is 
meant the civilized part of it, chiefly Greece, Carthage,, and 
Th more difficult taſk ſtill remained for the emperors, to ſub- 
e barbarous nations of Europe ; the Germans, the Gauls, the 
H 2 * Britons, 


a» Y * 
* : 


& INTRO DU T1 ow 

— Britons, and even the remote corner of Scotland i for though 
countries had been diſcovered, they were not effectually uh 
the Roman generals. Theſe, nations, though rude and ignad 
were brave and independent. It was rather from the fupericd 
their diſcipline than of their courage, that the Romans gained 
advantage over them. The Roman wars, with the Germans 
deſcribed by Tacitus, and from his accounts, though a Romy 
is eaſy to diſcover with what bravery they fought, and withy 
reluctance they ſubmitted to a foreign yoke. From the obſtinay 
ſiſtance of the Germans, we may judge of the difficulties'the 
mans met with in ſubduing the other nations of Europe. They 
teſts were on both ſides bloody; the countries of Europe wen 
ceſſively laid waſte, the inhabitants periſhed in the field, many 
carried int ſlavery, and but a feeble remnant ſubmitted ts the 
man power. This ſituation of affairs was extremely unfavoy 
to the happineſs of mankind. The barbarous nations, indeed, 
their intercourſe with the Romans, acquired ſome taſte for the 
ſciences, language, and manners, their new maſters. 
however were but miſerable conſolations for the laſs of liberty 
being deprived of the uſe of their arms, for being over-awedby 
cenary ſoldiers kept in pay to reſtrain them, and for being dem 
over to rapacious governors, who plundered them without 
The only circumſtance which could ſupport them under thelet 
plicated calamities, was the hope of ſeeing better dass. 


The Roman empire, now ſtretched out to ſuch an extent; col 
ed within itſelf the ſeeds of diſſolution; and the violent n 
the Goths and Vandals, and other Barbarians, haſtened its a 
tion. Theſe fierce tribes, who came to take vengeance on tl 
pire, either inhabited the various provinces of Germany, W 
never been ſubdued by the Romans, or were ſcattered "over tit 
countries of the North of Europe, and North-Weſt of Alia, 
are now inhabited by the Danes, the Swedes, the Poles, thei y 
of the Ruſſian Empire, and the Tartars. They were drawn" 
their native country, by that reſtleſſneſs which actuates the wins 
Barbarians, and makes them rove from home in quelt of pu 
or new ſettlements, The firſt invaders met with a po 
tance from the ſuperior diſcipline of the Roman legions} but 
inſtead of daunting men of a ſtrong and impetuqus temp 
rouſed them to vengeance. They return to their companion 
quaint them with the unknown convenignces and loxuries tif 
bounded in countries better cultivated, or bleſſzd with a mild! 
mate than their own; they acquaint them with the hattles We] 

fought, of the friends they had loſt, and warm them with a 
ment againſt their opponents. Great bodies of armed men. 
their wives and children, and flayes and flocks, ifſued 
regular colonies, in queſt of new ſettlements. New advent 
lowed them. The lands which they deſerted were oc by 
mote tribes of Barbarians. Theſe, in their turn, pune! 
into more fertile countries, and like a torrent continually Wear 
rolled on, and ſwept every thing before them. Wherever the 
barians marched, their rout was marked with blood. They 


> 


21 . * * 


troyed all around them. They made no diſtinAion Petweem 
was facred, and whit was profane. They reſpe@ted tio age,” 
„or rank. If a man was called to fix upon the period, in 
Paory of the world, during ble, the condition of the hu» 
race was moſt calamitous aſſtiched, he would, withour heſi- 
\, name that which elapſed from the death of Theodoſius the 
, A. D. 395, to the eſtabliſhment of the "Lombards in Italy, 
d. 571. The contemporary authors, who beheld” that fcene of 
ation, labour, and are at a loſs for expreſſions to deſcribe the. 
xr of it. The ſcourge of God, the deſtroyer” of nations, are the 
ifyl epithets by which they diſtinguith the moſt noted of che 
arous leaders. SOLE , | * 
onſtantine, who was emperor about the beginning of the fourth 
ry, and who had embraced Chriſtianity, changed the ſeat of 
re from Rome to Conſtantinople, This occaſioned a prodigious 
ation. The Weſtern and Eaſtern provinces were ſeparated from 
other, and governed by different ſovereigns. The withdraw-. 
the Roman legions from the Rhine and the Danube to the Eaſt, 
don the Weſtern barriers of the empire, and laid it open to 
invaders. 3 3 
ome (now known by the name of the Weſtern Empire, in con- 
iſtinction to Conſtantinople, which, from its ſituation, was cal- 
he Eaſtern Empire) weakened by this diviſion, becomes a prey 
he barbarous nations. Its ancient glory, vainly deemed immor- 
is effaced, and Odoacer, a barbarian chieftain, fits down on 
throne of the Cæſars. Theſe irruptions into the empire, were 
dual and ſucceſſive. The immenſe fabric of the Roman empire 
the work' of many ages, and ſeveral centuries were employed in 
oliſhing it. The ancient diſcipline of the Romans, in military 
rs, was ſo eficacious, that the remains of it deſcended to their 
eſſors, and muſt have proved an over-match for all their ene- 
had it not been for the vices of their emperors, and the uni- 
al corruption of manners among the people. Satiated with the 
ries of the known world, the emperors were at a loſs to find 
proyocatives, The moſt diſtant regions were explored, the in- 
ity of mankind was exerciſed, and the tribute of provinces ex- 
ded npon one favourite diſh, The tyranny, and the univerſal 
avation of manners that prevailed upon the emperors, or as 
are called Cxſars, could only be equalled by the barbarity of 
e nations who overcame them. 
owards the cloſe of the ſixth century, the Saxons, a German 
on. were maſters of the Southern, and more fertile provinces of 
ain; the Franks, another tribe of Germans, of Gaul; the Goths 
pam; the Goths and Lombards, of Italy, and the adjacent 
yinces. Scarce any veſtige of the Roman policy, juriſprudence 
or literature remained. New forms of government, new Jaws, 
manners, new dreſſes, new languages, and new names of men 
countries, were every where introduced. 
om this period till the fixtcenth century, Europe exhibited a 
re of moſt melancholy Gothic barbarity. Literature, ſcience, 
er words ſcarce in uſe during theſe ages. Perſons of the 
tu, and in the moſt eminent ſtations, could not read or 
: rte, 


—— 


n ESESSS 


>» 2 


* 


6 Fa TI" oF ! ROOD UCCHP:I 10-1} 


write. Many; of che clergy. did not underſtand the breviary 
they were obliged daily to recite 1j ſome of them could-ſcarg 
id. The human mind neglected, uncultivated, and depreſked, 
into the moſt profound ignorance. I he ſuperior genius ai 
magne, who about the beginning of the ninth century geg 
France, Germany, with part of Italy; and Alfred the U 
d, endeavoured to diſpel; this darkneſs, and gate the 
jecdts a ſhort glimpſe of light. But the ignorance of the age v 
powerful for their efforts and inſtitutions. The darkneſs rem 
and ſettled over Europe more thick and heavy than formerly; 
A new diviſion of property gradually introduced a new Ipeg 
government formerly unknown; which ſingular inſtitution ; 
diſtinguiſhed by the name of the Feuda/ Syſtem. The king org 
ral, who led the Barbarians to conquett, parcelled out the la 
the vanquiſhed among his chief officers, binding thoſe on whonl 
Were bellowed; to follow his ſtandard with a number of men; 
to bear arms in his defence. The chief officers imitated thee 
of the ſovereign, and in diſtributing portions of their lands a 
their dependents, annexed. the ſame. condition to the grant, 
though this ſyſtem ſeemed to be admirably calculated for d 
_ a foreign enemy, it Yegenerated into a ſyſtemofq 
The vſurpation of the nobles became unbounded and unte 
They reduced the great body of the people into a ſtate ot atu 
vitude. They were deprived of the natural and moſt una 
rights of humanity. They were flaves fixed to the ſoil, which 
cultivated, and together with it were transferred from one pry 
tor to another, by ſale, or by conveyance. Every offended i 
or chieftain, buckled on his armour, and ſought redreſs at the 
of his vaſlals. His adverſaries met him in like hoſtile array. 
- Kindred and dependents of the aggreſſor, as well as of the det 
were involved in the quarrel. They had not even the liberty 
maining neuter. | hat =O 
The monarchs of Europe perceived the encroachments d 
nobles with impatience. They declared, that as all men . 
nature free born, they determined it ſhould be.ſo in reality. 
as name. In order to create ſome power, that might counterom 
thoſe potent vaſſals, who, while they enſlaved the people, controus 
gave law to the crown, a plan was adopted pf —_— nes 
vileges on towns, Theſe privileges aboliſhed all marks f Ki fe 
and formed them into corporations, or bodies politic, 90 
verned by a council and magiſtrates of their own nomination 
The acquiſition of liberty made ſuch a happy change in Wet 
dition of mankind, as rouſed them from that Qupidity and u 
into which they had been ſunk by the wretchedneſs of theirs 
tate. A ſpirit of induſtry revived; commerce became an un 
attention, and began to flouriſh. Va 


* This Gothic ſyſtem Nil! prevails in Poland: a remnant. of it — 
Highlands of Scotland fo late as the year 1748. And even in England, 4 0 


now ned for civil and religious liberty, ſome relies of thefE Gothic in ſtitutont f 
peivable at this day. | | . -. $8 


[ 5 0 . 
F wy © 
nous cauſes contributed to revive this ſpirit'of commerce; as 
new the inter courſe between different nations. Conſtantinople, 
apital of the Eaſtern, or Gtreck empire, had eſeaped the rava- 
the Goths and Vandals, who overthrew that of the Wet In 
. remains of — e 
1 man „ Was great Po trade, 
1 * reliſh fes the precious commodities and curious manu- 
res of India was retained” They communicated ſome know- 
of theſe to their neighbours in Italy ; and the Cruſades, which 
begun by the Chriſtian powers of Europe with a view to drive 
Turks from Jeruſalem, opened” a communication between Eu- 
and the Eaſt. Conſtantinople was the general place of render- _ 
for the Chriſtian armies, in their way to Paleſtine; or on their 
from thence. Though the object of thefe expeditions was 
gueſt and not. commerce, and though the iſſue of them proved 
reunate, their commercial effe&s were both beneficial and per- 
ent. R | . x» WA OKC 
bon after the cloſe of the holy war; the marmers -compaſs/ was 
nted, which facilitated the communication between remote na- 
s, and brought them nearer to each other. The Italian Srates,. 
ticularly thoſe of Venice and Geriva, began to eſtabliſh a 
merce with the Eaſt, and the ports of Egypt, and drew from 
ce all the rich productions of India. Theſe commodities they 
oled of to great advantage among the other nations of Europe, 
d began to acquire ſore taſte of elegance, unknown to their pre- 
ſors, or deſpiſed by ther During the rzth and 14th centu- 
the commerce of Europe was almoſt in the hands of rhe Tta- 
„ more commonly known in thoſe ages by the name of Lom- 
ds. Companies or ſocieties of Lombard merchants ſettled in eve · 
different kingdom; they became the carriers, che manufacturers, 
| the bankers of Europe. One of theſe companies ſettled in Lon- 
d ; hence the name of Lombard-freet. W SPHLGIVOZ YL A | 
he commercial ſpirit awakened in the North towards the middle 
he thirteenth century. As the Danes, Swedes, and other na- 
$ around the Baltic, were at that time extremely barbarous, and 
ited that ſea with their piracies, this obliged” the cities of Lubes 
8 Hambnrgh, ſoon after they had began to open ſome trade with 
[talians, to enter into a league of mutual defence. They derived 
h advantages from this union, that other towns acceded totheir 
federacy; and, in a fhort time, eighty of the moſt confiderable 
les, ſcattered through thoſe vaſt countries of Germany and Flan- 
5 which ſtreteh from the bottom of the Baltic to Cologne on the 
ne, joined in an alliance, called the Hanſeatic League ; which 
ame ſo formidable, that its alliance was courted, and its entity 
2 the greateſt monarchs. The members of this po- 
; aſſociation formed the firſt ſyſtematic plan of eommerce known 
the middle ages, and conducted it by common laws enacted in 
r general aſſemblies. They fupplied the reſt of Europe with na- 
ores; and pitched on diffe he moſt emi of 
2. pitched on rent towns, the moſt eminent 
Ech che ruges, in Flanders, where they eſtabliſhed ſtaples, in 
tne commerce was regularly carried on. "hither the Lom- 


1 brought the productions of India, together with the manufac · 
tures 


4 INTRO DU OT SH 
. ſetul-commodiries.of the Nor tn. 2 
A Bruges became the center of communication beg 
* and Hanſeatic merchants, the Flemings traded wall 

ia that city, to ſuch extent as well as advantage, as ſpirited 
P 7 anden 
4 f provinces the molt opulent, ot popalon 
| — penny 2 ogg £4 2 | 
4 Edward III. of England, eadeavoured to excite a. ſpirit 


deavoured to cultivate the friendihip of the great Khans of Tat 
- whoſe ſame in arms had reached the moſt remote corners of 
and Aſia, that they might be ſome check upon the Turks, wht 
been ſuch enemies to the Chriſtian, name; and who, from? 
Jr es handful of wanderers, ſerving occaſionally in the 
el contending princes, had begun to extend their ravages on 
fineſt countries of Aſia, An ag 3 
The Chriſtian embaſſies were managed chiefly by monks, 1 
dering ſet of men, who, impelled by zcal, and undaunted 
_ culties and d „ found their way to the remote courts 
_ mfidels, The lick philoſopher, Roger Bacon, was Jo wel 
ous as to collect from their relations, or traditions, many 
lars of the Fartars, which are to be found in Purchas's pip 
and other books of travels. The firſt regular traveller of une 
iſh kind, who committed his diſcoveries to writing, was Jall 
Plant Carpin, who, with ſome of his brethren, about the 
carried a letter from Pope Innocent to the great Than of I 
in favour of the Chriſtian ſubjects in that prince's extenan 
nions. Soon after this, a ſpirit of travelling into Tartary and 
4 | became general; and it would be no difficult matter ad 
= many Europeans, about the end of the fourteenth centres 
3 in the armies of Tamerlane, one of the greateſt princes of 1, 
14 whoſe conqueſts reached to the moſt remote corners of lad 
= chat they introduced into Europe the uſe of gun-powderas 
| lery; the diſcovery made by a German chymilt being f 
and accidental. | 
= | After the death of Tamerlane, who, jealous of the nba 
1 of the Turks, had checked their progreis, the Chriſtian as 
43 npon their return, magnifying the vaſt riches of the {1 
ired their countrymen with a ſpirit of adventury aud 1. 
and were the firſt that rendered a paſſage thither by ſea probubs 
| praQticable. The Portugueſe had been always famous for th 


ü NT RODUGCTTON & 


on t6 maritime affairs: and to their diſcovery of the Cape of - -- 
Hope, Great Britain is at this day indebted for her Indian 


part they contented themſelves with ſhort voyages, - creeping 
the coaſts of Africa, diſcovering cape after cape j but by mas» 
; gradua! progreſs Southward, they, in the year 1497, were 
tunate as to ſall beyond the. cape, which opened a pailage by 
the Eaſtern ocean, and all thoſe countries known by tlie name 
dia, China and Japan. . 2e 
file the Portugueſe were intent upon a paſſage to India by the 
Columbus, a native of Genoa, conceived a project of ſailing 
r by the Weſt. His propoſal. being condemned by his coun» 
2 as chimerical and abſurd, he laid his ſcheme ſucceflively be- 
the courts of France, England, and Portugal, where he had 
ter ſucceſs. Such repeated diſappointments would have bro- 
he ſpirit of any man but Columbus. The expedition required 
ce, and he had nothing to defray it. Spain was now his only 
ce, and there, after eight years attendance; he ſucceeded, 
gh the intereſt of Queen Iſabella, who raiſed money upon her 
to defray the expences of his expedition, and to do honour to 
J. . 12 
umbus now ſet ſail, anno 1492, with a fleet of three ſhips, up- 
e moſt adventurous attempts ever undertaken by man, and in 
ite of which the inhabitants of two worlds were intereſted. | 
this voyage he had a thouſand difficulties to contend with, and 
kilors, always diſcontented, began to inſiſt upon his return, 
tening, in caſe. of refuſal, to throw him overboard ; but the 
teſs of the commander, and the diſcovery of land, aſter a paſ- 
of 33 days, put an end to the commotion. From the appear- 
of the natives, he found to his ſurprize, that this could not be. 
dies he was in queſt of, and which he ſoon diſcovered to be a 
world ; of which the reader will find a more circumſtantial ac- 
in that part of the following work which treats of America. 
rope now began to emerge out of that darkneſs into which the 
deen ſunk ſince the ſubverſion in the Roman empire. Theſe 
a eries, from which ſuch wealth was deſtined to flow to the com- 
al nations of Europe, were ſucceeded by others of unſpeakable 
it to mankind. The invention of printing, the revival of learn- 
arts, and ſciences; and, laſtly, the happy reformation in re- 
, all diſtinguiſh the 15th and 16th century as the firſt æra f 
rn hiſtory, „ It was in theſe ages that the powers of Europe 
formed into; one great political ſyſtem, in Which each took a 
on, wherein it has fince remained, with leſs variation than could 
been expected, after the ſhocks occaſioned by ſo many internal 
lutions, and ſo many foreign wars, of which we have given 
account in the hiſtory of each particular ſtate in the following 
8. The great events which happened then have not hitherto 
their force, The political principles and maxims then eftabliſh- 
ill continue to operate; and the ideas concerning the balance 
wer then introduced, or rendered general, ſtill influence the 
cils of European nations.“ | 


om all which it ſeems extremely certain, chat che 9 


* 


6 » TR OD er 
of ſo many rival princes will always prevent any one off 


length render themſelves uncapable of defending even 
AT ſeſſions. The partial conqueſts they may make are ex 


projects have not been ſo often executed by flow reite 


A prince may form a deliberate plan of deſtroying t 


© conqueſts. cannot be concealed ; they generally oc 
the alarms they excite, the confederacies they give gc 


of 


N 


gaining the empire over Europe. But it is no leſs cert 
contending for it, they muſt weaken. their own force, nl 


hve ; inſtead of promoting, they rather oppoſe the 
more any kingdom is extended, it becomes the weaken 


in the courſe of a few years, and ſometimes by a ſing 


ſubjects; he may proceed by ſlow degrees in the exeentantss 
if he die before it is compleated, his fuccefſor may p 
ſteps, and avait himſelf of what was done before him 


than harm, and are almoſt always leſs folid than brillia 


which the prince, who, by misfortune, has been 4 
commonly reduced to the laſt extremities 1 
| - | * k . 7 ; J WM 


# on | * 
10 


% 


„ Devio EhonafSombondan > 


- 
* K 


ue, 8 
1 * 


a 
\ 


>> > + >» >> >. >a» 


_ 


- 


, 


OCRAPHICAL GR AMMAR. 5 


* 


F PARTICULAR GEOGRAPHY. 


U 6-07 $43 


j 


- 


CHAPTER I. 
HE SEVERAL PARTS OF EUROPE, 
NATURAL AND POLITICAL. 


UROPE is bounded by the Northern or frozen ocean on 
the North; by Asi on the Eaſt; by the Mediterranean 
Sea on the South, which divides it from Arzica; and by 
the Atlantic, or Weſtern ocean on the Weſt ;. being.about 
les long, taken from North-Eaſt to South-Weſt, and about 
les broad; and is contained chiefly between the latitudes of 
71 degrees North, and between the longitudes of 10 degrees 
id 60 degrees Eaſt, from the meridian of London. 


ollowing table ſhews the chief States of Europe, with their 
n reſpe& to the middle of the continent; the names of their 
ues, religion of the State, and the climate they ſtand in, 

Where 


- 
he 4 
4 n 
= y : 
, y N 0 
v 
4 


= KR o P 
Chere E * for api K Te Kingdom, * wy Repub 


V+ 4 


9 
= 


WL 


Ws. A —— 


| —— — 5 oli. Keligion: | e 

JK Spann Js WI Papiſts Madrid 
K Portugal S W|Papiſts Liſbon' 7 
K France W [Papiſts Paris 

Sardinia 8 I papiſts Turin 3 

48 Italy. -., S Papiſt? Rome | 

IK Sicilies 8 [Papiſts Naples 
K Switzerland Mid. Proteſt & Papiſts Bern 

Auſtrian Netherl./ W Papiſts Bruſſels F 

IR United Provinces| W Proteſtants Amſterdam” [ 
E Germany 9 Mid.|Proteſt & Papiſts Vienna 
K Bohemia Mid. Papiſts 0 to 
K Hungary E [Papiſts Preſburg 
K Poland Mid. Papiſts Warſaw . 

K Pruſſia NW Proteſtants Berlin 
E Ruſſia N E|Greek Church Peterfburgh' 
K Sweden N Proteſtants Stockholm 
K Denmark NW Proteſtants Copenhagen 1 
K Norway NW. Proteſtants Bergen 

5 | C Mahometans 3 
K England W {Proteſtants + London 
K Scotland W |Proteſtants Edinburgh \ 
K Ireland W [| Proteſt. & Papiſts — N 


35 


* 


"Tar Paincrrar EUROPEAN 1510 


% 


$ Any ro war STATES THEY ARE Jo 


] 


To Caier Dan. oy 


To = AY 


To PorTUGAL, 


i 


Jud 


England, Scotland, Ireland 
that Shetland; and Weben | 


Iceland. The Chief Towns 
| Kola ; ; Eaſt and Weſt crea 


The Azores. 


” Z 
- 


In THE WESTERN, AND ; NORTHERN oa 


1 


— 


* 
by = 
oy 
4 F 
. = 


In" THE MEDITERRANEAN SE Ay 


Ives Majorch 
W Man 


To IN 


> 


| To G. BziTAn. 


4 * L. 


Idands. 
Chief Towns. 


SR Chief ton : Cradel 


GS *v's 92 8 1 


= 


wh 


— 


0 „ | ws, | Fita ne +, 


wy * 
ö 7 | 
4 - 

* 

i * 1 


V 


o 
* - 


= 
** 


+ Ck 


TTL 


evra, 


XS 


' 


* 1 * Ann = 
To Franeh,/. | Corſica. Chief town Baſtia.. | 
To SanDIVIAe | Sardiula Chief town Cane. 
r „ i 


To SicyLIEs. | | Lipari ian ds. 


To Tuazxv. Candia, Archipelago iNands and Leveadia. 


C Iflands... Lieſiena, Corfu, 'Cephalopia, 2 Zant, 
0 ho nner. Tec. Towns. Liecjena, Corfu, Argolied, Tant 


In ITY BALTIC SEA. 


| Zeeland, Funen, Alſen, Long 
4 Data. Laland, ' Falſter, Mona, Bor 


0 SWEDEN. | Gothland, Alan, Rugen, 
0 Russ. Oſel, Dagho. 0 
0 Pa 05814. Uſedom, Wollin. 


530 


Puxcirar SEAS, GULFS, au BAYS iN EUROPE, ARE 
te Mediterranean Sea, 9 Europe on the North, and Afri- 
ca on the South. | 
ie Adriatic Sea, between Iraly and Turkey. 

te Euxine, or Black Sea, in Turkey, between Europe and Aſia 
he bite Sea, in the NNW parts of Ruſſia. | 

le Bailic Sea, between Sweden, Denmark, and Poland. 

te German Ocean, or Sea, between Germany and Britain. 

te Engliſh Charineh, between England and France, 
George's Channel, between Britain and Ireland. 

te Bay of Biſcay, formed between France and Spain. 
te Gulf of Bothnia, in the N E parts of Sweden. 
le Gulf of Finland, between Sweden and Ruſlia, 
te Gulf of Venice, the NW end of the Adriatic Sea. 


23 
. 


- 1 * 
34 


— 
„ 


** 


* 
0 
LY 
BZ 
7 

: 

2 


V . 2 . 0 


. T* moft Wekterly kingdom in Europe including 
Portugal. 


undaries, Bounded on | the Ny by the = of Biſcay and 
jrenean hills. - | 


= 1 ln TOhads a zo. 1 . — r — * 
ron * . e 9 * ö * * * * V * 8 * 7 5 
P a - | * 


= 
— — 


& 
bs 


WS 


wh, . ". . * 
ne”. 
. 


* 1 
5 LY ; 4 . 
. = * 
* * 5 
i * «ig 0 N 
8 — ©. 
x 
* Y - C * 9 = bt 
"3 ” "= 
$ * 
4 
= 
* — I 
9 


7 . 


r A 
On the Sonth by the Mediterranean ſez and Streightis * 


=” 
- , # * a 
- * * 
4 


N 7 


N. 


On the Eaſt by the Mediteranean ſea. 


On the Welt by. Portugal and the Atlantic occad 
rtr. From latitude 36 degrees to 44 North, 02 


— and 


But the mean extent fi from North to South muſt be Gen 


Deut 400 miles. 


And from Eaſt to wel about 600 miles geographical 
Comprehendiog five diviſions, viz. 
the Southern, the middle, and the Spaniſh iſlands. 


From Jongitude 3 degrees Eaſt 9 885 degrees aboy 


The Northern, the 


=: 
= 


—, 


P | 
= * * * ay 
| &_ ” 


Fon Pier Thief Towns Lee L 
"RING © 
© (CGallicia | NW Compoſtella 43. oo N. 1g] 2 
1 — Northern gs N [Oviedo 43- 30 6.4 s 
| Biſcay | N {Bilboa 43. 30 f 0 
1 "Navarre | N E ampeluna 43. 15 \1. 4 
Zaſtern Fe IE N EfSaragolla 41. $2 1. 
| is Catalonia E Barcelona 41. 20 |. 
( Valentia - | E. alentia 39. 20 0. 
| s — Murcia 8E Murcia 38. 6 1. 
1 Granada 8 ranada 37% T5 1 2 
Andaluſia | 8 eville 39: 15 16. 02 E 
| | Old Caſtile | M [Burgos 43+ 30 + if S 
liddle New Caſtile | M adrid 75 30 U 
4 | Leon M Leon © 6. 
} * CEfremaduraj] M erida 4 55 |6 4! — 
| Spaniſh Ivica E vica 35 f 1. 0 5 
Illands Here E Majorca 39. 30 fl. A 
0 to Britain. ( Minorca E itadellsa 40. d 3 
— £ 
. = 
Title. Prov. Subdiviſion, Title. Chief towns. 8 
[ cCompoſtella | Archbx. | Compoſtela 14 4 
SE „ | Moridonedo | Biſhopr. | Mondonedo #41 E 
D | = 5 Lugo | Biſhopr. | Lugo 54 3 
2 8 Ortenſe Biſhopr. ] Ortenſe E < 
I [© {Tuy Territory LIu x _J2 
nor ty 1 \ | . . | 50 
E = | 8 e de Oviedo Oviedo 623 
2 8 — Aſturia de Santillana] Santillana 440 2 
a> > C Biſcay Proper [ Bilboa o 29 7 
8 4 | S I Guipiſcoa | Tholoſa 5 x 
25 A Alava | Vittoria  ' J = 
"| . (Pampeluna | Majorſhip | Pampeluna 
E to P 
S | = | Olita  Majorſhip ] Olita 
(WE þ j: Tudela Majorſhip Tudela 
= 2 Eſtella Majorſhip | Eſtella 
* ( Sangueſa | 8 5 Sangueſa 


8 


- 


1 


= 


”" 


N. 


or. SubdiviGon- + Title. 1 RE: Conſ derable 


towns. 
Saragoſſa Archbpx. ä 
aca 4 | Biſhoprick 4 #} 
„ Hueſca | Biſboprick, | Hueſca . 7 | 
© | Balbaſtro | Biſhoprigk | Bathaltro, 
E Taracona Biſhoprick | Taracona ſ 
4 | Albaraka + Biſhoprick J Albaraſia -. 
Teruel , | iſhoprick, | Terue!k 
gabarbe | Biſhoprick | Aina 3 
—— f Diitrick Barcelona © } 
Diſri& Urgel | 
plague Diſtridt Balaguer * 
; E Binria Totes, „ 
5 j Girone Dini | Girone -- | d 
Tarragona Diſtric Tarragona 3 
Lampredau { Diſtricc Roſes Þ 5 
9 Vick 1 Diftri&t Vich - 
Cardonna {| Diſtrict Cardonna | 
Solfonna | Piltri&t Selſonna * 2 
Puycerda | Diſtric I Fugcerdaa | 
| , | Bey e WI SMES [FLEW 
5 | Xucar | Diſtrit © > Valeutin £2 7 - 
2 . | 2 Villa Her- = 5 w 
v Millaros | Diſtrict [ moſa 7 8 2 2 
3 j Segura ' Diſtrit Origu cla "IE - 5 > 
AO DO 28 
3 \ Murcia Diſtrict 9 aaa e 
5 )Lorc Proper Lorca Is £ N= 
& ( Carthagena j Diſtrict | £1 * na 
* ( Granada Archbiſhop — 
Malaga Biſhoprick | Malaga 
5 nee | Biſhoprick | Almeira - 
O ( Gaudix Biſhoprick -| Guadix 
x { Seville | Archbiſhop f Seville 
5 | Jaen Biſhoprick Jaen 
3 Corduba Biſhoprick | Corduba 
Medina Dutch Medina 8i- : 
< Sidonia We \ 3th donia RE 7 = © 0 
Burgos iltrict Burgos 1 = 8 
Rioxa Diſtric. ] Logrogno! | VOM 
2 Calahorra Diſtrict . Calahorra * * 
| Soria Diftrit Saria | FS 
© Ona Didric | Oſma f 33 
; | Valadolid | Diſtrict  * Valadolid 42 8. 
© | Segovia Diſtrict _| Segovia 38 
Avila Diſtrit | Avila: | 4428 
Siguenſa | Diſtrice Signeaſs J x 


— 


„ 


F * 
_ : 


X's " | | - . 
| 3 n ICE | 
q | | | FN. of the Tao | Madrid 
8 ; pon the 1% %/%ͤł(V?. þ Toledo 7 
7 IE. of the Toledo Cuenca 5 958 
On the Guadiana | Civi Real 
E. of Madrid Alcala de Haze! 
Frontiers of Valentia -| Almanzaa 
IN. W. of Madrid | Eſcurialt 
| — N. E. of Madrid 
A N. E. of Madrid 
J 
a | | t On the Guadiana 414 
12 — 2 -— Frontiers of Valencia. 
T1 * = eee wy 


N £ 4 9H 18K. 
1 North of che Douro * 
8 4 | 43 | ö 2 
j A * neee mY Se 
| I soch ef the Deu ome ; 
8 - | 1 : ' 4 vi Darige 
©, : 7 . | / 
[es . 1 Hl 
Norch of the T4jo hae $ 


p | 

N „ F 
4 : SI Betw. Tajo and Guadiana Truxillo 
1 8 | | 


* 
* 


1 


: 5 a je bl 3 
South of the Guadiana Lenera, ed 

On the Tajo e 
On the Guadiana _ N71 Medis I 


% 4” 


[- | Majorca Majorca wb 
S ; Minorca,ſubje&to Great Citadella 
: | 
& 


Britain T Fort Mahou 
Inien 


8 & 


* 


Ivica 


Mountains.) 1. Pyrenees divide France from Spain, an 
200 miles from the Bay of Biſcay te the Mediterranea ® 
this extent there are only five paſſes, or ways, berween the( 
tries of Spain and France, 2. Cantabrian m6untains'on.W! 
from E. to W. from the Pyrenees to the Atlantic ocean to- 

. ward of Cape Finiſterre. 3. Sierra Molina and Tabla 
Old Caſtile from New Caſtile. 4. Sierra Morena divides M# 
tile and Eſtremadura from Andaluſia.” F. Sierra Nava 1 

3 mountains, run from E. to W. through Granada. 6. Men 

13 near Gibraltar, oppoſite to mount Abyla and Africa wr 

if - - tains were anciently called Hercules Pillars. | 


- = a R F 
= = \ : = | 4 C 


BOT) 2 | f C 
8” Pi As. '14 Ne 
4 1. Douro, formerly Durius, after running W. through 


garagoſſa 8. E. through Arragon, and falls into the 
— Tortoſa. 3. Guadalariar, now Turio, runs 

n 8. W. croſs Valentia, and falls into the Mediterrane 
e city of Valeatia. 3. Guadalquiver olim Bætis runs W. 
Andaluſia, paſſing by Seville, and falls into the Atlantig 
St Lucar. 5. Guadiana olim Anas, runs 8. W. chrough 
ſtile and Eſtremadura, falling into the Atlantic ocean at Ay- 


tlantic ocean, under the bridge of Cima, making a large bay 
ana. 7. Minho runs 8. W. thro? Gallicia, and falls into 
hatic ocean, N. of Viana. 8. Mondego, or Monda. runs 
oimbra into the Atlantic ocean. 9g. Segura runs Eaſt thro? 
and part of Valentia, falling into the Mediterranean between 
ena and Alicant. 10. Tajo olim Tagus runs W. through 
ſtile and Eſtremadura, falling into the Atlantic ocean below 

11. Zadao olim Callipus runs from the mountains of Al- 
croſs Alentejo into the Atlantic ocean, making a large Bay 
dal. 12. Zucar runs from W. to E. croſs Valentia, and falls 


in Aſturia; 3. Cape de Machia in Biſcay, on the North; 4. 

ol; 5. Cape Billem; 6. Cape Finiſter, on the North-Weſt, 
a; 7. Cape Trafalgar, on the South-Weſt, in Andaluſia z 
de Gate; 9 Cape Palos; 10. Cape St Martin, on the 
in Granada, Murcia, and Valencia; 11. Cape Creuſe, on 
t in Catalonia. : | 


„ Gulphr,] 1, 2, 3, Bays of Biſcay, Ferrol, and Corunnay 
ne, on the North-Weſt. 4. Vigo Bay on the Weſt 5, 6, Bays 


on the Eaſt. 12. Bay, of Majorca, in the iſland of that 
13. Bay or harbour of Port Mahon in the iſland of Minor- 
ging to England. | | 


it.] Streight of Gibraltar, between Europe and Africa. 


Spain being a mountainous country, and of great extent, 
$ very different in the North and South, as well as on the 
Ins and vallies. | % 

rally the air is dry, ſerene, and pure, except about the Equi- 
when their rains uſually fall, The Southern provinces are 
io great heats in June, July, and Avguſt ; however, on the 


Pouthermoſt part of Spain; and on the mountains on the 
d Norch-Eaſt, it is very cold in Winter. 


ut their vallies in general are exceeding ſruitful, and their 
K mountains 


ile, Leon, and croſs, Portugal, falls into the Atlantic oc. | 
2. Ebro olim Iberus, riſes in Old Caſtile, runs 


a the Bay of Cadiz. 6. Lima runs from Gallicia 8. W. in- 


Mediterranean by Gandia, ſeven leagues below Valentia. 
tories or Capet.] 1. Cape de Ortegal in Gallicia z 2. Cape 


and Gibraltar on the South-Weſt. 7. Bay of Carthagena 
douth, 8, 9, 10, 11. | Bays of Alicant, Altea, Valentia, and 


ns, and near the coaſt, they are refrethed with cool breezes. 


1 Produce.) There are ſome ſandy barren deſarts in the 


0 2 - —— OR A oe + __ 


S8 eee 
mountains äre covered wih trees and herbage. th ue 
uch as Seville oranges, lemons, ptunes, figs, raifins, ala 


place of E their flocks according to the change of 


moſt of their woollen manufactures, wrought filks, lace, and 


_ colate nut, logwood, and other dying woods: Tug” 


1 
1 
q 
21 
1 
q 


V 
In 
; 
4 


thence in their Galleons. 


. «0 


The country produces a great variety of rich wines, gw 


anate, cheſnuts, and capers. The wines, eſpecially; f 
erry, are in high eſteem among foreigners, aud then 
wine and raiſins: from Malaga and the neighbôuritg ws 
value® at L. 268,7 5% Sterling. Even fugar — | 
woduces alſo ſilk, fine wool;x flax and cotton ; and: thires 
x quiqkſilver, iron, copper, lead, and allum. The Mag 
aud Bilboa is eſteemed the beſt in Europe. 
Animal] Their moſt uſeful animals are, horſes, m 
eattle, and ſheep. They have chamois goats on their m 
and are pretty much peſtered with wolves, hut ſcaret aug 
beaſts : They have plenty of deer, wild fowh and other 
their ſeas well ſtored: with fith, among which is the anf 
Mediterranean) 14 e 
Ic has been ſuppoſed, that the number of people em 
ſhepherds in Spain, amount to forty thouſand, who o 


= 
— _— — — 


theſe ſheep. furniſhing a large quantity of the fineſt ſom g 
produce a very conſiderable article of commerce; and by 

the great quantity of Aromatic herbs produced in this 
their fleſh, as well as that of the kids, is rendered exquilite) 
ons. The Spaniſh. horſes, eſpecially thoſe of Andaluſia ar) 
ed the handſomeſt in Europe; and are likewiſe very witty 
viceable; but the King endeavours to monopohae' the f 
for his own ſtables and ſervice. 2 © FS 


Manufucturet. ] Their manuſactures are of filk, wool int 
per, and other hard- ware; but theſe are not ſo conſiderable a 
be expected, which proceeds in a great meaſure from the in 
of the natives, and their want of hands. They rene d 


— 5 -< Fo a ww 


from England; France, Italy, and Holland; -whiok they 
to America by the Galleons, and conſequently great" pat 


g IN 
treaſure brought home by the Galleons, is paid to the m Nt 
thoſe nations which furniſh them with goods. pt 


Traffic.) Their greateſt branch of foreign'traffic in Fin 
formerly with England; they exchanged their wine ad 
the woollen manufactures of great Britain; but neither 
France take off much of their wine or fruits, having 
their own, and conſequently the traffic of Spain with th 
tries was not ſo advantageous as that with England» 

The Spaniards, in return for the matiufactures they e 
meriea, receive gold, ſilver, cochineah, indigo, the cn 


ſnuff, and ether produce of that part of the world, fü 
of the countries of Europe and Aſia with the ſilver the u 


oy + 77 


n] This kin formerly enjoyed more liherty than 
ion e he Oortes, or'Partiaments, eſpecially in 
had greater power and privilegus than thofg of Eugiand; 9 
les V. curtailed them ſo effectually, that now though ſome 
ains of their conſtitution are ſtill diſcernible in the goyern · 
they are N under the power of the wag From being 
& free State in Europe, Spata is now become the moſt deſpo- 
i the monarchy is hereditary; the females inherit in default 
male iſſue ; and the King ſeems to have it in his power, we | 
ie crown. 0n what branch. o the royal family he pleaſes ; 

pe have ja inſcance, when, Charles I. beſtowed the kingdom , 
Duke of Anjou. VVV 
notwithftanding the King of Spain is an abſolute: a 
bm vidlates the laws, or 8 any affairs of ſtate, with. 
advice of the ſeveral. councils or boards eſtäbſihed for the 
Ive branches of bufinefs ; of theſe, '- Oo TOO * 
he junta, or cabinet · council, conſiſts of the principal Secte- 
State, and five or fix mare of the King's nomination,” which 


1 


derermines all matters relating to the government. 
he privy council,” which pars Po a greater number, aud 
| all matters for the cabinet. 64 7.449 et dos 
de council of war. node )en Dan RD 461 
te council of Caſtile, uch is the higheſt court of judica»: 
the kingdom, for civil and criminal cauſes, and receives ap- 
vm all inferior courts within its juriſdiction. wo 

te ſeven courts of Royal audiences, viz. of Gallicia, Seville, 
4, the Canaries, Saragoſſa, V alentia, and Barcelona. Theſe” 
prince of all cauſes within five leagues of their reſpective 
cities, in the firſt inſtance ; and, by way of appeal, of all 
removed from inferior courts within their 1 juriſdic- 
4 thoſe of the Alcades, | Bailifts, Corregidors, Regidors, 

Ke. 4 * r M. ug, . + 
government of Spaniſh America forms a ſyſtem of itſelf, and 

gated to viceroys and other magiſtrates, wn are in their rel 

dilrits almoſt abſolute. A council for the Indies is eta 
in Old Spain, and conſiſts of a governgr, four .fecretaries, 

nſellors, beſides officers. Their deciſion is final in matters 

g to America, The members are 8 choſen from the 

sand magiſtrates, who have ſerved in that country. The 

cat viceroyalties of Peru and Mexico are ſo conſiderable, that 

re ſeldom truſted ty one perſon for mere than three years, but- 

re thought ſufficient to make his fortune in that time. 

foreign poſſeſſions of the crown of Spain, beſides thoſe in 

a, are the towns of Ceuta, Oran, and Madulquiver, on the 

Barbary in Africa; and the iſlands of St Lazaro, the Phi- 4 
55 and Ladrones, in Aſia. mY N 
ict illands belonging to Spain in. Europe, are thoſe of Mayar- 
d Yrica, of which we haye nothing particular to ſay. Mi- 
s indeed a Spaniſh iſland, but it was taken by the Eugliſh in 
The Spaniſh inhabitants enjoy their religion, and particular 
*, to which they are entitled by treaties, and they are ſaid 
unt to 27,009, | oe HL a | 


{ 1 
K 2 a | De I 


A822 44 ren 
e King's titles. The kings of Spain, in their title ng 
merate all the kingdoms and provinces of e 
— 2 but they are all comprehended in that of his Cath 
Yor i c 2 = | 


7 * „ ; 447 4 « 
4 A 4 7 Ne * — * * n 9 e 45/4113 y 
5 N 1 


ut 


n - it "ry * 5 r | * 
"The eldeſt "fon of Spain is Tiled the Prince bf Aﬀturiy; 
d 3095 are [tiled Infants, and the daughters Infamas, f 
r WED ay. 


«4 d j 
1 'Fy '+: 0 


Regal Arm!, Noli-) "Spain formerly comprebended dach 
... . tity, Orders, Kc. J doms, all Which, with fever ee 
by name entered into the royal titles, ſo that they enn 
to about 32. This abſurd cuſtom is (till occaflonally een 
the king is now generally contented with the title t e 
Majeſty.” The kings of Spain are maugnrated by the delivery 
ſword without being crowned; Their ſignatire Wei 
| their name, but I Th Kuss. 
„* nr Ref has, ew tC —_— 
The armorial:/bearing of the kings of Spain, like their g 
loaded with the arms ot all their kingdoms. It is now a 
vided into four quarters, of which the uppermoſt on the right 
and the loweſt on the left: contain a caſtle, or, with thre 6 
for Caſtile ; and in the uppermoſt on the lefty and the lowel 
right, are three lions gules for Leon; with three lilies in th 
tre for Anjou. 5 4 .. Nn 3 , 1 ud | 
The general name for thoſe Spaniſh nobility and gentry; u 
with - 3 Mooriſh blood, is Hidalgo. They are divide te 
dukes, marquiſſes, counts, viſcounts, and other inferior titles 


elteemed noblemen; they were inſtituted in the long war 
the Chriſtians and the 1 as an encouragement to Van 
have large eſtates annexed to their reſpective orders, config 
ly of towers or territories recovered from the Moors. I 
the golden fleece is generally conferred on princes and Wn 
| dukes; but there are no commanderies or revenues annexed! 


Forces.) The forces of Spain, in time of peace, are zompl 
be forty thouſand, and they may have twice that number ul 
war: The Walloon, or ſoreign guards are eſteemed theirbs 
ers. , 


They have increaſed their Royal navy, of late, to near 
fifty fail of men of war of the line, beſides frigates and 
inferior force. 2 7 


Some of their largeſt and beſt ſhips are built at their 4 
ports, particularly at the Havannah, in the iſland of Cue 


, 1 Pi. A. HH - 125 $5357 "il 


. 


a ae —1 \ 
* a4 ++ . * SR wo 5 
* 


een much improved fince, the; a7 xflion of the-houſe of Bour- 


: - 
+ * 


bas a fifth ; and it is by theſe that the two laſt wars were chiet- 
ported. | "WW. 07%" ; 1 n HH EST 1 5 | '5 


dz on goods brought into Madrid, or carried from one pro- 
tanctber.. t . 6 4 ie 8 
rents of the firſt floors of all the houſes in Madrid. T 
kind of land-tax on the peaſants, and thoſe- under the degree 
bility. Man e ö e 5 
kind of general exciſe on meat, drink, and other proviſions . 
ties on cattle driven from North to South. .;.', 7 
„in Lent. 


tax on thoſe who eat, butter, cheeſe, milk, or 
tax on the clergy who are exempt ftom military ſervice... 


ax on the three military orders, for the king their grand ma» 


| 


* 
- 
o 


* 


tar on timber. T * g 1 das 
t more money is raiſed by the king's fifth of the treaſure 
r from America, than by all other means. 


ditants, Manners, Cu-? Spain, formerly the moſt populous 
toms, Diverſions, &c. kingdom in Europe, is no but 
inhabited; owing partly to the great drains of people ſent to 
dea, and partly to the indolence of the natives, who are at 
ins to raiſe food for their families. Another cauſe is the vaſt 
ters of eccleſiaſtics of both ſexes, who lead a life of celibacy. 
t writers have given ſeveral other cauſes, ſuch as their wars 
the Moors, and final expulſion of that people; but I apprehend 
dey are in a great meaſure removed by the regu gy and 
$ upon the cfergy that have been introduced by his preſent Ca- 


e 


Wabitants of Spain at 7,500,090 z others ſay, that they do 
g the numerous armies which Spain has raiſed and recruited 


n, computed the number to be 9,250,000, * | -- 
e perſons of the Spaniards are generally tall, eſpecially the 
ans ; their hair and complexions ſwarthy, but their eountenan- 
very expreſſive, The court of Madrid has of late been at. 
pans to clear their upper lips of Muſtachoes, and to intro- 
among them the French dreſs, inſtead of their black cloaks, 
hart jerkin, ſtrait breeches, and long Toledo ſwords, which 
* 20w chiefly confined to the lower ranks. The Spaniards, 
e the acceſſion of the houſe of Bourbon to their throne, affec- 
* atiquated dreſs in hatred and contempt of the French p 
: 2 * 


1 


1 


e eee Nam 


; Denno Acad 1 10 10 , 
ves.) The revenues of the crown, ariſing in Spain are coƷuu 
0 be between five and eight millions Sterling per annum: and 


| . | . | : 1 <A 4 ö 4 q " A 
er American ſilver mines are inexhauſtible, of which the 


Spain, are duties on goods imported and 


Majeſty. Be that as it will, ſome late writers have computed 
ceed 5,000,000. This calculation, muſt be under rated, conſi- 


the beginning of this century; and Feyjoo, a modern Spaniſh 


a — 


— = 
— — 
D . w e rt 9 . — 
* + — — — — — - 
* 2 ORE We _ = —_ _ 4 i 
" 2 = * SW > - * — g . 1 * * * 
* 
2 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


— — 


x 


. 1 = - 
: 7 - 
N : 
| | 22 l „ K 
I * = a 17 wu 
. # F 5% 


and ent, probably, will find fortie'difleuſty "ia 
ans quite, as the fame ſpirit is far from being extitiguilis 
Old Caltihan, or Spaniard, who ſees none above him, ink K 
mie weft important being in nature; and the me pride is 
I y cemmunteated to his deſcendents. This is the true whit 
any of them are ſo fond of removing to America, Wet 
. Fetain all their natiye importance, without che danger f fo 
rie 017 e, een 
_  Ridicoldys; however, as this pride is, it is'produRive oft 
exalted qualities. It inſpires the nation with-generons, ki 
d yirtuons ſentiments ; jt being ſeldom found that a Spanilf 
_ "bleman, gentleman, or even trader, is guilty of a mean attioi 
ring the'molk embittered wars they have hach with England ſor 
\ 20 years paſt, we know of no inſtance of their taking ad 
as they might eaſily have done) of conſiſcating the Britilh pi 
| on board their Galleons and Plate fleet, which was equally et 
time of war as * This is the more ſurpriſing, as pp! 
often needy; and his miniſters were far from beitig ferapul 
1 beating their good faith wirh Great*Britain; + 
By the beſt and moſt credible accounts of the late wat, ity 
that the Spaniards in South America gave the moſt himaney 
Die relief to all Britiſh ſubjets” who were in Uiltrek aun 
their hands, not only by ſupplying them with neceſſarjes, but 
ney ; and treating them in the moſt hoſpitable manner while 
remained among them. > TOES 
Having ſaid thus much, we are carefully todiſtinguiſht 
Spaniſh nobility, 1 and traders, and their goyernment 
are to be put on the ſame footing with the lower Tanks of Span 
who are as mean and rapacious as thoſe of any other ch 
kings of Spain, of the houſe of Bourbon, have ſeldom ventu 
employ native Spaniards of great families, as their minilters”] 
are generally French or Italians, but moſt commonly thei 
| who riſe into power by the moſt infamous arts, and dt de 
from the moſt abje& ſtations, Hence it is that the French ky 
Spain, ſince their acceſſion to that monarchy, have een d 
indifferently ſerved in the cabinet. Alberoni, who had e gt 
ms among them, embroiled his maſter, wirk all Europe, 8 
Tas driven into exile and diſgrace; and Grimaldi, the a N 
Italian miniſters, hazarded u rebellion in the capital, by WY 
ſive and unpopular meaſures. W 
The common people who live on the coaſts, partake of 
bad qualities that are to be found in other nations. They! 
aſſemblage of Jews, French, Ruſſians, Iriſh adventurers, and! 
Iſh ſmugglers ; who being unable to live in their om en 
mingle with the Spaniards, In time of war they follow pm" 
ing with great ſucceſs : and when peace returns, they engage 
illicite practices, and often enter into the Iriſh and Walloon? 


in the Spaniſh ſervice. 4.1, 
Fhe beauty of the Spaniſh ladies reigns moſtly is ther 
and romances ; for though it muſt be acknowledged that 
produces as fine women as any country in the world, Jet de 
far from forming their general character. In their 


monly ſmall and gender; but we” 3 are ſaid to empſby val 
ſupplying the defects of nature. we are to hazard A con- 


ve might reaſonably ſuppoſe that thoſe artifices rather di. 


SK: 


increaſe their beauty, eſpecially when they nee" t 
3 Their indiſcriminate uſe of paint, not only upon 
but their necks, arms, and hands, undoubtedly disſigures 
omplerion, and ſhrivels their in. It is at che ſume time 
ally allowed, that they have great wit and vivacity. « 17 
Spaniards are univerfally knownto have refined notions and 
it ſenſe ; and this, if improved by ſtudy and travelli 
they now ſtand in great need of, would render them ſupe 
te French themſelves. Their ſlow deliberate manner of pro- 


* 


. cer in couneil or war, has of late years worn off to 
r degree, that during the two laſt wars, they were found to be 
t boch in reſolving and execnting, if not more fo, than their 


Their ſecrecy, conſtancy, and patience, have always been 
xd exemplary ; and in ſeveral of their provinces, particularly 
a, Granada, and Andaluſia, the common people have, for 
time, afſiduonſly applied themſelves to agriculture and labour. 
zong the many good qualities poſſeſſed by the Spaniards,' their 


falt as well as ſup in bed; their breakfaſt is uſually chocolate, 
ing very ſeldom drank, Their dinner is generally beef, mut- 
real, pork, and bacon, greens, &c. all boiled together. They 
uch upon garlic, chives, ſalad, and radiſues; whiehy accord- 
þ one of their proverbs, are food for a gentleman, The men 
rery little wine; and the women uſe water or chocolate. Both 
uſually ſeep after dinner, and take rhe air in the eool of the 
bes. Dancing is ſo much their favourite entertainment, that 
kay ſee a grandmother, mother, and daughter, all in the fame 
ty dance. Their theatrical exhibitions are generally infipid 
ndiculous bombaſt. The prompter's head appears through a 
or above the level of the ſtage, and he reads the play loud 


Aeg de heard by the audience. Gallantry is a ruling paſſion 
country, and they omit no expence in the diſplay of it. A 
then! frequently paſs the night under the windows of his miſ- 
pe, ö erenading her with the fineſt muſie in Spain. Jealouſy, fince 
ron of the houſe of Bourboun, has flept in peace. The 
his of of the cavaliers, or bult-feaſts, are almoſt peculiar to this 


tf, and make a capital figure in painting the genius and man- 


nrded, according to the number and fierceneſs of the bulls 
k killed in theſe encounters. Great pains are uſed in ſettling: 
m and weapons of the combat, ſo as td give a relief to the 
ty of the cavalier. The diverſion itſelf is undoubtedly of 
h original, and was adopted by the Spaniards when upon 
erms with that nation, partly through - complaifance, and 
throngh rivalſhip. "mt bins ha 


in has not produced learned men in proportion to the capaci- 
: = | 6" 


Ss PF A N N 4 3 


in eating and drinking is remarkable. They frequently - 


» of of the Spaniards. On theſe occaſions, young gentlemen have 
e Portunity of ſhewing their courage and activity before their 
es ; and the valour of the cavalier is proclaimed, honoured, 


* 


> — —_ 
* — 

— 
_ K 


— — OO 
5 a 
— 


. << — — ̃ 
» 
4 4 4 * 6 . „ 


— 2 ' . 
* * * 


—_ * 2 ao. adi - 
* * 


— 


7. * 


nor works are much known in other parts of Europe.” 


. you will paſs chrough ufually two or three large 


” ; and ing owes 2 great deal 
ville, and cardiaal 
been put in competition with our 8 
it mult be owned they ſhew great genius. 
les V. that the inimitable Cervantes, the author of 
1 little ſuperior to chat of a 
aſter ing brave! 
8 —— fighting 
Don Quixote, did 
of that ridicalous ſpirit, as it now does honour to his own 


- Toſtatus, a divine, the moſt voluminous 
was a Spamard z but his works have been diſtinguiſbel 
their bulk. Herrera, and ſome other hiſtorians, p 
Solis, have ſhewn great abilities in hiſtory, by inveſtigaa 
gaines of America, and writing the hiſtory of ins 

countrymen. Spain has likewiſe many travelle 
voyagers to both the Indies, who are equally amuſing and; 


. ” 
0 * 
- 


many 
their abilities as ſculptors and architects; but neither thei 


Madrid, though unfortified, it being only ſurroundei 
wall, is the capital of Spain, and contains about gore! 
tans. All its grandeur, which the Spaniards blazon will 
pomp, does not prevent its being, according to the belt ac 
dirty uncomfortable place to live in, efpecially for franges 
ſurrounded with very lofty mountains, whoſe fammits are 
ly covered with ſnow. The houſes in Madrid are of brick; 8 
laid out chiefly for ſhew, conveniency being little cn e 
apartments 
uſe, in order to come at a {mall room at the end where il 
fit. The houſes in general look more like priſons, than t 
tions of people at their liberty; the windows, beſides h, 
cony, being grated with iron bars, particularly the lower 
and ſometimes all the ret, Separate families generally an 
houſe, as in Paris and Edinburgh. Foreigners are ven un 
treſſed for lodgings at Madrid, as the Spaniards are moe» 
taking ſtrangers into their houſes, eſpecially if they a um 

lics, Its greateſt excellency is the cheapnels of its proviſionk 
neither tavern, coffce-houfe, nor news-paper, exceprmug the 
drid Gazette, are to be found in the whole city. The a 
ſtands on an eminence, on the Weſt ſide of the city it s 4 


magnificent ſtructure, conſiſting of three courts, and c 


So 


E 


The | place of the kings and queens 
* 4 called the Pantheon, becauſe it is built upon the play 
ple at Rome, as the church to which it belongs is upon 
el of St Peters. | a | 7 
ichſtanding the incredible ſums beſtowed on this palace, and 
raiture, ſtatnes, paintings, columns, vaſes, and the hike 
2 which are moſt amazing) 


5 Lich, and beautiful, the fu- 
V diſcovers 2 bad rafte; upon the whole. The const of 
t in the form of a gridifon, becauſe St Lavrence, to 
5 dedicated, was bratled on ſuch an utenſil, and multiply- 
lame figure thro* its principal ornaments, could have been 
h in the brain of à taſteleſs bigot, ſuch as Philip II. ho 
to commemorate the victory he obtained over the French 
the affiftance of the Engliſh forces) at Bt Quintin, on Sr 
rs day, in the year 1563. It has been enriched and - 
Y tis ſucceſſors, but its outhde has 4 gloomy appearance, 
nlide is compoſed of different ſtructures, ſome of which 
pieces of architecture, but forming a difagreeable whole. 
bowever be conſeſt, that the pictures and ſtatues that ha ve 
Imiſion here, are excellent in their kind, and ſome of them 
* equalled even in Italy irſelf. TR 

the great emporium of Spaniſh commerce. It lands on 
L feparated from the continent of Andaluſia, without the 
| Gibraltar, by a very narrow arm of the ſea, over which a2 
bridy: is thrown, which Err The en- 

ta 


L054 THIS 15 50H 


SAILITED 


$= 


— 
— 


| the bay is about 00 fatboms wide, and guarded by two 
- & the Puntals. Phe entrance has never been of late years 
— = by the Engliſh, in their wars with Spain, becauſe of the 
* t our merchants have in the trexſures there, which they 


t reclaim from the captors. 


0 K, next to Madrid, the largeſt city in Spain, but is great- 
both in riches and poputadion, Its manulatiurers in 
L wool 


+ BD 
= — N 
= 


© — — — - 
7 


1 


_ preſent in poſſeſſion of Great · Britain. It Was taken en 


PX. 


te country; notwithſtanding which, they carry on g d 


ced to 400, and its great office of commerce to S 


The poorer forts, both men and women, wear neither Nn 


a Spaniard, to perform theſe offices to ſtrangers ; but e 


Sz 
. - 


A - 
od 


8 8 P A 1 N 
and filk, which formerly amounted to 16,006, e 


- 


is removed to Cadiz. D 

Barcelona, a large trading city, containing 1%, 
tuated on the Mediterranean facing Minorca, and is faidy 
handſomett place in 8 pain. 5 
| Gibraltar, once a celebrated town and fortreſs of Au 


niards by the confederate fleet of the Engliſh and Dutch, wl 
command of Sir George Rock, in 4704, and after many | 
attempts to recover it, was confirmed to the Englh by i 
of Utrecht in 1713. It is a commodious port, and formal} 
ture for commanding the paſſage of the ſtraits, or in dd 
the entrance into the Mediterranean and Levant feas, They 
neither large nor beautiful, yet, on account of its forthe 
eſteemed the key of Spain, and is always furniſhed with ag 
well provided for its defence. It is built upon a rockinapy 
and acrofs the Iſthmus the Spaniards have drawn a fartitedl 
prevent the garriſon of Gibralar from having any intere 


trade,” particularly in tobacco, of which the Spaniards ze 
ingly fond. The garriſon is confined within very ban 
and the ground ſcarcely produces any thing, ſo that t U 
2 either from England or from the oppolites 
| Forkirly Gibraltar was entirely under military governme 
finding that power was carried to an extravagant height, th 
liament thought proper to ered it into abody corporate, and 
vil power is now lodged in its magiſtrates.. The road d N 
is neither ſafe againſt an enemy nor ſtorms. _ The bay 
Teagues in circumference. The ſtraits are 24 miles long 
broad; through which ſets a current from the Atlantic vocal 
the Mediterranean, and for the ſtemming of it, a brit gak 
ired. ' nn | : | | 
Notwithſtanding the pride and oſtentation of the Spaniards 
penury is eaſily diſcernible, but their wants are few, and 
petites eaſily ſatisfied, The inferior orders even in the great 
ties are miſerably lodged, and thoſe lodgings wretchedly in 


ſtockings. A traveller in Spain muſt carry provifions ane # 
with him, and if perchance he meets with the appears 
inn, he muſt even cook his victuals, it being beneath dhe 


ble inns have lately been opened by Iriſh and Frenchmen? 
ties, and upon the highways. The pride, indolence, anon 
of the Spaniards, are powerful inducements to their mores 
ous neighbours the French, who are to be found in all pam 
kingdom; and here a wonderful contraſt diſtinguiſhes the 
of two neighbouring nations. The 'Spaniard ſeldom ſs 
home, or puts his hand to work of any kind. He lleeps 8 
maſs, takes his evening walk. The induſtrious Frenchman 
a thorough domettic ; he is butcher, cook, and tayih - 


” i 6 


| e | „ 
j he powders the hair, cuts the corn, wipes the ſhoes, 


e 10 1 | 
U. zer making himſelf uſeful in a thouſand different ſhapes, be 

to his native country loaded with dollars, and laughs out 
ous nainder of his days at the expence of his proud benefactor. 
ud ty | | 


een and Curio/ties.] The former of theſe are chiefly Ro- 
nd Mooriſh. Near Segovia, a grand aqueduct, erected by 
v extends over a deep valley between two hills, and is ſup- 


5 by a double row of 152 arches. Other Raman aqueducts, 
ny f bs, and circi, are to be found at Terrago, and different parts 
the! in. A ruinous watch- tower near Cadiz, is vulgarly, but er» 
, thought to be one of the pillars of Hercules. Near the 
Salamanca are the remains of a Roman way, paved with 


Gat ſtones; it was continued to Merida, and from thence to 
At Toledo are the remains of an old Roman theatre, 
is now converted into a church, ſaid to be one of the great · 
joſities of antiquity. It is 600 feet in length, 500 in breadth, 
a proportionable height; the roof, which is amazingly bold 
ty, is ſupported by 350 pillars of ſine marble, in ten rows, - 
g eleven iſles, in which are 366 altars, and 24 gates; every 
ing enriched and adorned with the moſt noble and coſtly or- 
o 5 | 
15 f. Mooriſh antiquities, eſpecially the palace of Granada, are 
ficent and rich; the inſide is overlaid with jaſper and porphy- 
| the walls contain many Arabic inſeriptions; the ' whole” is 
lin what we improperly call the Gothic taſte, but it is real- 
cen, though the Goths of Spain adopted it. Many other 
monuments, erected in the Mooriſh times, remain in Spain, 
df them in tolerable preſervation, and others exhibiting ſuperb 


ag the natural curioſities, the medicinal, ſprings, and. ſome 
ocen les, form a principal part, but we muſt not forget the river 
ana, which, like the mole in England, runs under ground, 
ten is faid to emerge: though ſome late travellers affirm, that 
runs through a deep valley covered with thrubs and buſhes, ſo 
ts fearce vifible at a diſtance, but does not cun under ground 


y fn TT TIS | 
ee] The language of the Spaniards comes as near the 
a language now ſpoken in Europe, mixed with ſome A- 
raue rds and terminations, introduced by the Moors, Their pa- 
e d ſer runs thus; Padro nueſtro, que eftas en los cielot, ſanctiſcade 
ome wnbre ; venga tu regn» ; hagaſe tu voluntad, aſſien Ia tierra como 
n U bv ; da nos hoy nueſtro pan cut jdiano; y perdona nos guſtras deu- 
and k comp -w = perdonamos a nueſtros deudorer ; y no nos metas en 
re Il m, mar libra nos de mal, ue tao et le regno ; y la potencia ; 
darts ma per lor glos. Preps IM 1 5 12 

je ch N 8 

ſhes gun.) As to religion, the Spaniards are zealous Romaniſts 
church is governed by Archbiſhops and Biſhops, ſubje to. 
u, atroul of the Pope. And there is no country, except Portu- 


lere the inquiſition reigned with ſuch terror ; no ſubject but was 
L 2 liable 


N og he was required to confeſs, himſelf guilty, or hin 


* Spain, viz.: T/edo,. comprehending the biſhoprics of Oed 


and, 8. Valencia, W the biſhoprics af Orig 


| Great Chancellor of Caſtile; has a revenue af 460jood 


e Palentia, Sevulle, Toledo, Fe: 2. 


OY old Spaniſh Piſlole, 4 penny weights, 8 TMs — 0 


$7 4k * 


liable to be penal the Hely Office, às it is.called; a 
Was firſt ente for 17 trial of the Rh of Moor 
Bit who were compelled to profeſs. the Chrilind 
et the conqueſt of Granada, anno 1491. In this cou 
ſcarce poſlible for a priſoner to make a tolerable defence, 1 
ſfered to know either his accuſers, or the witneſſes 


re, till ſuch a confeſſion was extorted from him as the. Fah 

uired. But the horrorg of this religion are nom ae 
Th penalties of the inquiſition though diſuſed are not .abg 
only che eceleſiaſtics and their officers can carry no Ran 
r without the royal authority. 


- drehbiſhepries -and-biflopricd-]- Their are "eight ani 


via, Carthagena, Siguenza, Otma, Cnemza, Jaen, and . 
Fa. 2. Burger, cotaprehending the biſhoprics of neg 
lahora, with Calzada and Palentia. 3. Conpoſtelia,com 
biſhoprics of Salamanca, Avily, Placentia; Lugos,Satnirg <1 
torga, Tuy, Badaois, Mondonedo, Coria Ciudad, me 
Oxide. 4. Grunaun, comprehending” the biſho 
ria and Malaga. 5. Seville, comprehending the 
diz, Guadix, and the Canary Iſlands 6. Saragoſſa, compii 
ing the biſhopries of Huefa, Jaca, Parse — 
and Albaracin 7. Favugons, comprehending che bie 
NN, Lerida, Girona, Vich, Urgel, Solſonns, dh 


Majorca. 144} 4415 Ho 
The archbiſhop of Toledo is tiled the Primate- of Spain 


m nein to 100,000], We or more. 


r There are twenty-two univerſities, of whit 
chief are Salamanca, Compollella, Alcala de Henaptty'? 


* 
a Ev 


; Converts. ] There are alſo i in Spain 2191 2141 convent f and a 
Fontaining + at leaſt 50,000 monks an 


SPANISH God, Coms. Wr 1 


The new Seville Piſtole, 4 penny - weights, 8 grains e 
The old Double Doubloon, 17 penny. weights, 8. grains 
The old Double Piſtole, 8 penny- weights, 16 S * 
he new Seville double Piſtole, 18 penny: weights, 46 rains 
Sogn mee > hall and quarter of. ele n ai 
{I 1 
SPANISH Sig Comm F 
The new vader of Spain, or Seville piece of eight — 0 
The new Seville piece of eight. — ,——, 
The Mexico piece of eight — — 
The 1 1 piece of eight — — — 


* ow . 


s r AA {1 2N. T 
did, Cadiz, Seville, and all Spain, becount are kept in 
ies, an imaginary; cin 34 of Which make à rial; and 273 
7, er piece of eight af Seville. cen $87: 29 200040 » 


* 


10 
b 


* © © 
1 NG 


ak 
Out | Woh ed one £01 42113G A. 4:4 
ry of Spain and | gal.] This country ſortierly included 


10 
0 


aink 1, and was known: to the ancients by the bame of Iberia and 
to is, as well as Hiſpania. About the time of the Punic wars 
F lrided into Citerior and Ulterior The Citeriory | enntained 


princes lying North of the Ebro, and the Ulterior, which was 
gelt part. contained all the reſt. 45 rang - 
he ancient hiſtory of this. country, at leaſt of the interior 
it we know very little. It was probably peopled from Gaul; 
d it is contiguous, or from Africa, from which it is only ſe · 
j.by the narrow Rrait of Gibraltar. The Phenicians ſent co- 
thither, and built Cadiz and Malaga After wards, upon the 
Rome and Carthage, the poſſeſſion of this kingdom became 
& of contention; bet Veen thoſe, powerful republics; but at 
the Rowan arms preyailed, and Spain remained in their poſ- 


ind | util the fall of that: empire, when it became à prey ro the 
oof Theſe, in their turf: were invaded by the Saracens, Who 
Bus the end of the 7th century, had poſſeſſed chemfelves of the 
_ ingdoms of Aſia and Africa; and not content wich the im- 


regions that formerly compoſed great part of the Aſſyrian, 
and Roman empires, they croſs the Mediterranean, ravage 
and eſtabliſh themſelves in the Southerly provinces of that 
 Pelago is mentioned as the firſt Old Spaniſh prince who di- 
iſhed himſelf againſt theſe infidels; (who were afterwards 
| by the name of Moors} and he took the title of king of A- 
out the year) 9209 210 i dg nfm s 0) Gahpato de tt, 
ſucceſſes animated other Chriſtian princes. to take arms like · 
and the two kingdoms of Spain and Portugal for many ages 
perpetually embroiled in bloody wars. In the mean while, 
alrenturer was entitled ta the conqueſts he made upon the 
till Spain at laſt was divided into 12 or 14 kingdoms; and 
the year 1095, Henry of Burgundy was declared, by the 
Leon, count of Portugal; but his ſon, Alphonſo, threw'off 
erdence on Leon, and declared himſelf king. A ſeries of 
princes gave the Moors repeated overthrows in Spain, till a- 
de year 1475, when all the kingdoms in Spain, Portugal ex- 
Vere united by the marriage of Ferdinand, king of Arra - 
nd Iſabella, the heireſs, and /afterwards Queen, of Caſtile, 
dot Granada, and expelled the Mobrs and Jews; to the num- 
110,000 families, out of Spaa . 
apulſion of the Moors and Jews, in = manner depopulated 
of artiits, labourers, and manufacturers; and the diſcovery of 
not only added to that calamity, but rendered the remain- 
uarcs moſt deplorably indolent. To complete their misfor- 
Ferdinand and Iſabella introduced the popiſh inquiſition with 
horrors, into their dominions, as à ſateguard againſt the 
4 the Moors and Jes. x 
es V, of the houſe of Auſtria, and aſterwards Emperor of 
Germany, 


vs OG AS 1P #A 51-21. 


with aſtoniſhment, the withdrawing himſelf entirely from ay 


lands, with great formality, in the preſence of "his printipy 


. Charles's brother, thereby dividing the dangerous p 
qualities. He was auſtere, haughty, immoderately ambition 


Portugal to his ovn dominions, though the Braganza family 


Philip and his father had ſo totally ruined the ancient liven 


over the Portugueſe, that in the year 1640, the nobility « 


- lip V. anno 2501. Aſter a long and bloody ſtruggle with 


l 


Germany, facceeded to the throne of Spain, in right of 
who was the. htet af Ferdinand and IHabella.' The 4 
poſſeſſions of the houſe of Auſtria in Europe, Africa, and 
all, America, from whence he drew immenſe treaſures, 
alarm the jealonſy of neighbouring princes, but 'could wg! 
the ambition of Charles3' who was conſtantly engaged in 
wars, or with his proteſtant ſubjects in Germany, hem heh 
attempted to bring back to the Catholic church. At laſt; aft 
and turbulent reign, he came to a reſolution that filled all 4 


cern in. the affairs of this world, in order that he mig 
remainder of his days in retirement and ſolitude. 
Agreeable to this reſolution, he reſigned Spain and the 


ty, to his ſon Philip II. but could not prevail on the pr 
Germany to ele& him Emperor, which they conferred on e 


houſe of Auſtria-into two branches ; in, with all its pe 
in Africa and the new world, alſo the Netherlands, and foud 
Lan ſtates, remained with the elder branch, whilſt the empire, 
ry, and Bohemia fell to the lot of, the younger, which they 

Philip IL inherited all his father's vices, with few 


through his whole life a cruel bigot in the cauſe of popery, 

Portugal, after being governed by a race of! wiſe and bran 
ces, fell to Sebaſtian about the year 1557. Sebastian oth 
and a fine army, in a headſtrong, unjuſt, and iJl-concertede 
tion againſt the. Moors in Africa; and ſoon after, "Philip 


. pretended to a prior right. By this acquiſition Spa 
poſſeſſed of the Portugueſe ſettlements in India, ſome of win 
Mill holds. | | 

The deſcendents of Philip proved to be very weak prince 


Spain, that they reigned almoſt unmoleſted in their om dowd 
Their viceroys, however, were at once ſo tyrannical 15 


nation, by a well - conducted conſpiracy, ed their 
and placed the duke of Braganza, by the title of John I 
their throne ; and ever ſince, Portugal has been a diſtin ku 
from Spain. : | „ 

The kings of Spain, of the Auſtrian line, failing in the fe 
Charles II. who left no iſſue, Philip, duke of Anjou, 
to the Dauphin of France, and grandſon to Lewis XIV. a 
that throne, by virtue of his predeceſſor's will, in the name d | 


man branch of the houſe of Auſtria, ſupported by England 
confirmed in his dignity, at the concluſion of the peace N 


1713. And thus Lewis XIV. through a maſterly train of pt 
{for in his wars to ſupport his grandfon, he was'reduced totht 


eſt abe accompliſhed his favourite project of tratisferrny the 


dom o Spain, with all its rich poſſeſſions in America and th 


N 


By 3 ie | 37 


, eſpecially in the American ſeas, where a glaring: partiality 
-n ſhewn to the French nation ever ſince, and our be · 
ſeſſed of a port in the South ſeas of equal importance to that 
iraltar, at the entrance of the Mediterranean, which ſerves 
rb on the united ſtrength of France and Spain in Europe. 
a long and turbulent reign, which was dilturbed by the am- 


cceeded by his ſon, Ferdinand VI. who, in 17595 died with- 
ie, through melancholy- for the loſs of his wife. Ferdinand 
cceeded by his brother, Charles. III. the  prefent king of 
| ſon to Philip V. by his wife, the princeſs'of Farm. 


from Spain, had not the latter power been engaged in wars 
England and Holland 3 and upon the reſtoration of Charles II. 
gland, that prince having married a princeſs' of Portugal, 
Iled with the crown of Spain, 1668, to _ up all pretenſions 

kingdom, Alphonſo, ſon to John IV. was then king of 
al. He had the misfortune to diſagree at once with his wife, 
b brother Peter, and they uniting their intereſts, not only 
| Alphonſo to reſign his crown, but obtained a diſpenſation 
the pope, for their marriage, which was actually confamma- 
They had a daughter; but Peter, by a ſecond marriage, had 
the eldeſt of whom was John, his ſucceſſor, and father to his 
it Portugueſe majeſty. John, like his father, joined the grand 


fervice in humbling the power of France. On the contrary, 
ad almoſt ruined the allies, by occaſioning the Joſs-of the 
battle of Almanza in 1707. John died in 1750, and was 
ded by his ſon; his preſent majeſty. ' In 1760, the king was 
ed by aſſaſſins, and narrowly eſcaped with his life in a — 
ct near his country palace of Belim. The executions of no- 


ve know of no clear. proof againſt parties. om this 
racy is dated the expulſion of x Jeſuits (who are ſuppoſed to 
been at the bottom of the treaſon) from all parts of his moſt. 
i majeſty's dominions. The preſent king having no ſon, his 
daughter was married, by diſpenſation from the pope, to Don 
der own uncle, to prevent the crown falling into a foreign 


the prince of Beira. | | 


1762, when war broke out between Spain and England, the 


eli) into their alliance, and to garriſon his ſea-towns againſt 


and declared war againſt the Spaniards, who, without 


#hether the whole of the pretended war was not concert- 
rde England into a peace with France and Spain, in conſi- 


{rom the houſe of Auſtria to that of his own fam yet © 
on; an event which proved faral to the commerce of Great 


of bis wife, Eliſabeth of Parma, Philip died in 1746, and 


Portugueſe could not have ſupported themſelves under their 


leraty formed by king William; but neither of them were f 


and others which followed, are ſhocking to r eſpecis 
: 


and the next year, 1761, ſhe was brought to bed of a ſan, 


gt 
ds, and their allies the French, pretended to force his faith - 

liſh with their troops. The king of Portugal rejected this 
ce, entered Portugal with a conſiderable army, while a bo- 


French threatened it from another quarter. Some have 
whether any of theſe courts were in earneſt upon this occa - 


+ »- "(eration - 


= * 
— — _—_ 


- 9 


oF. 


| the French and Bpaniards carried on the war in a Fel 


| ſervice perſopmed by the Tngliſh'to the Portugüeſt, 
riod, cannot be {ail to have beheld their deltyerets with af 


Madrid, as obliged him to part with his mititter $59" 
| | | J Bes vt vr $> nA} 7 503) TTUMOBIT THE 25 4 


titude; and 7 and 10 of 
aan wen 257 1 


the Romans, called Luſitania. The ae * 50 
om 100K 


| infants of Spain, iu 116, and have iſſue, beſides three more daug eh, 


F 


»s ꝛͤ f RI TU U 1 


fidetation of Portugal's apparent danger. It is With 


manner, and that had they been in earneſt, the . t hm 
masters of Liſpon long before the arrival of the Egge 
the aſſiſtance of the Portugusſ tree 
Be chat as it will, 2 few Engliſh battaltons, with's fal 
artillery; put an effectuał ſtop, by their eourage and abet 
the progreſs of the invaſion. Portugal was ſaved; aud g p 
concl at Fontainbleau in 1763. * Notwithſtanding 12 . 
O00 


oſten ſaved before ia the lite manner, the latter ever tel 


eye. The moſt captious diſtinctions and frivolous: preteigg 
been: invented by the Portugueſe miniſters for erampfig dhe 
trade, and depriving them ef their unqueſtionable privilets 
War being declared between Spain and England, tt u 
the Haxannah, in the iſland of Cuba; and thereby reha 
entirely miſtreſs of the navigation of the Spaniſk platt eg 
ny cireumſtanoes concurred to make a peace Heceffff Wis 
and upan its concluſion; che Havatifiah was reſtored to Span 
His preſant Catholie Majeſty does all he ean de oblige ti 
to deſiſt fram- their ancient dreſs and manners, aud et 
deavours fo far, that it occaſioned ſo dangerous an ieſerreh 


+ ww 76 ”- wi 
I 3 > 4 | bo 


8 £4 1 | 47, CT RI 
. * 4 99 4 1 , CH nene ® 4 111 add 
- p TP 0 1 b 
5 40 * * + +» *> ; 4 : 4144 * * Fd "£4 TYM. 
"I . 8 + - * 4 4 , « : 
oo” * 
” * * 1 * Hog 
: 4 \ * « . : s tf \,* * „ " J+ | 4 — & - 44 — 1 
* _ Py ; 6 ; th on 0 vi i 4 i 
* £3 N * K * 4 + . 4 « ; % . ” + 4s 
a a 1 » k , 
g 4 : s © % - ” , ” - *734 . 
” : . s. - © 0 . 6 1111 7 
: 4 ” * * s - ” 
©'; * of 9 Ju . * 9 © 
F& ox «47 | eng- 7 D nan 
1 y 1 "IS 424 
* — * 
8 
* 


T is bounded by Spain on the North and Eaſt, aud n U 
and Weſt by the Atlantic ocean, being the molt. Welterhl 
dom on the continent of Europe; being ent 300 miles 10.8 
and 100 in breadth, lyi Ads 37 and 42 degrees-of Nl 
Welt longitude... 


Ancient namet and diviſions. ] This kingdom was, in e 


name is uncertain. It moſt probably is. derive | 
harbour or port, to which Gauls (for ſo ſtrangersare calles 
Celtie) reſorted. By the form of the country it is natural 
ded/into three parts; the North, Middle, and South pol 


e 


Joſeph, king or Portugal, was born tn 1914; his queen, MaryyAnn 

' Maria-Francer-Ifubella, princeſs of Braſil, born. in 173 4 marie, 15g 

uncle, Dan Pedro, by whom ſhe has iſſu e. 

t. Jaſeph- Frances Xavier, prince of Beira, born in 1364. 
Takunts JehiMaria-fofeph, 167. 

S. Inf Mariana: Victoria, 1768. 


Nee 


\ 


* 4 


' 


Alentejo 
Algarva 
tains.) Portugal is as mountainous 4 country as Spain, 


Lagos 


7 O r ⏑ AE 6 
q Entre Minho 2 Mb GOV tw abt 
1 | prion } Don and | 3 Oporto and Viana 
1 | in Tralos montes Miranda and Villa Real 
= N Guarda Caſtel Rodti | 
” - de Diviſion IT 8 ö Lion 9.42. N. "”y 
; | ] my | | -53. W. lon, 
% | Eftremadura St Ubes and Leira. b 
ob (Entre Tajo Ebora, or Evara 8 
Ne 1 Ju Diviſion Guadiana P ortalegre, Elvas, Beia by 3 


TS mountains are uſually barren rocks ; the chief of them 
ere mountains which divide Algarva from Alentejo; thoſe in 


lontes, and the rock of Liſbon, at the mouth of the Tajo, 


= xe Roca, or Sintra. ; 
7 Tbe rivers in Portugal are, 1. 8 2. Tajo, or 
ied formerly celebrated for its golden ſand, 3. Mondego. 


„ and 3. Minho : All falling into the Atlantic ocean; but 
ountry every brook is accounted a river. For their courſe 
1; There are, in ſome parts, hot baths; accounted ſanative. 


trie or Capes.] 1. Cape Mondego, near the mouth of 
Mondego. 2. Cape Roca, at the North entrance of the 
o. 3. Cape Eſpithel, at the South entrance of the river 


] Bays are thoſe of Cadoan, or St Ubes, South of Liſbon, 
* Bay in Algarva. + : 180 


The air is not ſo pure as in Spain, neither is it ſo exceſſive 
lome of their Southern provinces, lying for the moſt part 
ea, and refreſhed with breezes from thence, whereby the 
$ reckoned by ſome as a proper retreat for thoſe who are 

2 conſumptive diſorde | 
| Produce. ] The foil is not ſo fruitful as that of Spain, 
n corn, which they import from other countries, nor are. 
tt ſo good, though they are of the ſame kind; they have 
vine, which is much eſteemed, particularly in England. 
of their cattle and poultry is lean and dry, but they have 
« of good ſea-fiſh. | 95 l 


. The horſes in Portugal are briſk lively animals, as 
Ub in Spain, but of a flight make; the mules being much 
* are more uſed both for earriage and draught. Some 
"and flocks of ſheep" are ſeen here, but they do not a- 

M | bound 


Faro, Tavira, and Silves, 


- * df as 


G % _ 
= 9 : 
— 4 
©» : 


nd 4. Cape St Vincent, on the South-Weſt point of Al-. | 


= o 
OY - 
Ws 


1 


— F OOO N—— 3 CC CO. — - 


their own materials for foreign manufactures. Ther males 


work, and are excellent in preſerving and candyivg fruit. . Th 


groſs-all the productions of her colonies, as well as hetom 


fine red, wood, tobacco, hides, and the drugs of Brazil; lel 


tugueſe themſelves, but they certainly abound. in Af thep 


that are produced in the Spaniſh dominions there. Ie 


little ſhipping the Portugueſe have, is chiefly employed uns 
tlement in the Eaſt-Indies, and their other poſſeſſions there 


St Ubes, where Engliſh ſhips frequently load with alt 


by a tremendous earthquake, laid level with the ground 
| $0,000 of the inhabitants were buried in the ruins; andin 


nature, and completed the ruin of the capital of Portuga: 


St Ubes, not far from Liſbon, was alſo deftroyed-,, 


TER TT n { * = 
= ms IS EA TNECIOTs 
e n 3 — 
n * „ GEN 
1 
- 


pP Of, N T3 Ur Gi A 18% 


bound; and their alt is generally lean and dry. Their 
kids are much the belt food. (ag, 97 2 5 & 


| 1 8 | Ro 

Commerce and Manufadures.]  'Theſe, within thee ſway 
years, have taken a ſurpriſing turn in Portugal. The mt 
miniſter there, has projected many new companies and ren 
which have been again and again complained of, as i 
preſſive to the privileges which, the Britiſh merchants forms 
joyed by the molt ſolemn treaties. , 


'The Portuguzſe exchange. their wines, ſalt, fruits, and 
linen, and ſome coarſe ſilk, and woollen, with a variety 


merce of Portugal, though ſeemingly extenſive, proves of þ 
lid benefit to her, as the European nations, tradingwithl 


commodities, as her gold, diamonds, pearls, ſugars, cv 


ebony, ſpices, and drugs of, Africa and Eaſt - India; in va 
the almoſt numberleſs manufactures, and the vaſt quantity ofa 
falt-fiſh, ſupplied by thoſe European nations, and by the 
North American colonies. NE 28 
The Portugueſe foreign ſettlements are, however, nat on 
menſe value, 1 — vaſtly improveable. They bring gald 
plantations on the Eaſt and, Weſt coaſts of Africa, aud 
{laves for manufacturing their ſugars and tobacco in" Bra 
their South American ſettlements. - - 20 
What the value of theſe may be, is unknown perhaps tot 


ſtones, and rich mines of gold and filver, and other con 


that the king's fifth of gold, ſent from Braſil, amounts ann 
300,000 |, ſterling, notwithſtanding the vaſt contraband trait 


on the ſlave trade, and a correſpondence with Goa, ther an 


Liſbon is the greateſt port in Europe, except Londes 
ſterdam: Oporto and Viana alſo are conſiderable port, 


are bound to America. 1 | 
Liſbon is ſuppoſed to contain about 200,000 inhabitants; | 

about 50,000, | 5 
Nov. 1, 1755-] The wealthy and flouriſhing city of L 


remained, with the court itſelf, were reduced to the utmow 
and miſery. A terrible conflagration "followed. this 


As ſoon as an account of this melancholy accident 8 
England, the parliament voted the king 100,000 l. de 
the ſufferers. | | | 


* 2 


f 


| hs 


r O R N U A nr Tha, "TY 


part of Liſbon which was deſtroyed by the earthquake is 
;nned out in the moſt. commodious manner. Several large 

and many ſtreets are now rebuilt, The ſtreets form right 
and are broad and ſpacious, the houſes being elegant, uni- 
ul three flories higbs⸗- 921607 17 * | 
ro carries on a great trade with England, eſpecially for Port- 
and ſo ſenſible are the inhabitants of the value of this trade, 
y themſelyes drink no wine, being content with water.. 


. 


ktution.] The king of Portugal, as well as the king of Spain, 
d upon to be an abſolute prince: The Cortes or Three Eſtates 
png ſince ſold their part in the legiſlature to the crown, and 
on e to confirm or record ſuch acts of ſtate as the court reſolves 
to declare the next heir to the crown, when the king is plea 


ominate him, or to rectiſy treaties with thoſe foreign princes, 
7 il eſteem their conſent of any weight. 0 p 

of c | | * IP | 

the . title.] The king's titles are, King of Portugal and the 


as, on this ſide, and beyond the ſeas in Africa, Lord of 
a; and of the navigation, conqueſt, and commerce of Ethi . 
Arabia, Perſia, India, Braſil, &c. | 58 

he year 1748, the king of Portugal was dignified by the Pope, 

he title of His Moſt Faithful Majeſty. allt vt ie 
eldeſt ſon of Portugal is ſtiled Prince of Braſil. 
u.] The arms of Portugal are, argent, ſive eſcutcheons 
placed croſs-wiſe, each charged with as many beſants as the 
placed faltier-wiſe, and pointed ſable, for Portugal. The 
bordered gules, charged with ſeven towers, Or, three in 
and two in each flanch. The creſt is a crown, Or, under 
0 flanches, and the baſe of the ſhield appears at the end of 
o croſſes, the firſt flower de · luce vert, which is for the order 
s, and the ſecond pattee gules, for the order of Chriſt ; the 
s changeable, each king aſſuming a new one; but it is fre- 
ly _ words Pro Rege et Grege, (viz.) For the King and 
op . Pe. | IEP 


it.) The degrees of nobility are the ſame as in Spain. 


err of Knighthood.) Their four orders of Knighthood are, 
it of Avis. 2. The order of Chriſt. 3. The order of St 
z and 4. The knights of John; who have all commanderies 
Rates annexed to their reſpective orders, as in Spain. The 
of Malta has likewiſe twenty-three commanderies in Portu- 


4 


rer.] Neither their fleet or land forces are very formidable; | 
me now the moſt inconſiderable of all the maritime powers; 


Kr land forces are the worſt militia in Europe, 
"0G Wn 


* * 8 


F „ &. & W 


: Ta 4754 they had only 12 ſhips of war, — 
a convoys, but unprovided for military action: 
a ſeems diſpoſed to have a more — 
2 land one; to which he may doubtleſs be led from wr 
His . 
n 5 


Revenues] "The revenues of this coowni faahil | 
the Braſil mines, may be equal to thoſe of any princes 
but their forces by ſea and land are very 'inconlideratle; 
K 
aA 1 


—— The eden l ee ee 
are a confiderable part of theipablic revenues, ani Well 
ed out by the crown from three to three years. The tut 
very high in Portugal, and not be advanced without 

der ruin of the people. Foreign merchandize pay %s; 
importation, and fiſh from Newfoundland 25 per cent. 
in the neighbouring ſeas and rivers pay 27 per cent. and thet 
on lands and cattle that are fold is 16 per cent. The at 
alone amounts to 50,000 crowns. Beſides whichz the ting 
conſiderable revenue from the ſeveral orders of micht 
which the king is grand maſter. And the Pope, in anf 
the large fams he draws out of this kingdom du thera 
gives the king the money arifing by ſeveral bulls cum u 
as thoſe for granting indulgences, hicences to eat Heſhat uma 
bited, &c. And it is computed that the roval reellnltnl 

= _ penſions and falaries,” may amount to three 3 
= thouſand crowns. The nobility are not taxed but upowent 

ry Emergencies, and then not very high. 


4 \ Inhabitants, Manners, and Cuſtoms. 1 — tothe 

v4 culation, Portugal contains near two million of i 

ſurvey made in the year 1732, there were in that 
pariſhes, and 1,742,230 lay perſons (which is but 5234 
— on a medium) beſides about 300,000 


| The modern Portugueſe retain nothing of that advent 
prifing ſpirit, that rendered their forefathers ſo ra jo 
ago. They have, ever ſince the houſe of B 
throne, degenerated in all their virtues, tho“ ſome noble e 
are ſtill remaining among them, and no people are fo link 
the Portugueſe are to the reports of hiſtorians and travellers 
degeneracy is evidently owing to the weakneſs of their mod 

. which renders them inactive, for fear of diſobliging ther 
N neighbours, and that inactivity has proved the ſource f fen 
cther unmanly vices. Treachery has been laid to their ©® 
as well as ingratitude, and above all, an intemperate paſſion) 
venge. They are, if poſſible, more ſuperſtitions, and, bot 
and common life, affect more Rate than the Spaniards" 


Among the lower people, —_—_ is commonly pradtifed 


— 2 „„ — 2 — RO AU" = 
1 * 


HUG 92 
. —— 
2nd the diminution of the papal influence among them, bur 
all, by that ſpirit of independency, with regard to comimer- 
irs, upon Great Britain, which, not much to the honour of 
ratitade, is now ſo much encouraged by their court and mini- 


= 
ble; aniards, whoſe habits and cuſtoms they do not now imitate 
nds h as the Engliſh and French, and the Portugueſe quality affect 


more gayly and richly drefſed. - The Portugueſctadics art thin 
jall of ſtature. Their complexion is olivey their eyes black 
xpreflive, their features generally regular, and they walk ve- 
rad wage They are eſteemed to be generous, mode- 
jd witty.” 


dnefs and affected gravity; but in general mort magnificent, 
2) are tanght by their haſbands xo erad from-theiy ken 
nage, that in other countries is paid only to royal perſonages. 
furniture of the houſes, eſpetially of their grandees, is rich 
pperd to exceſs ; and they maintain an incredible number of 


lice, as they never away 1 who ſurvive, after ſervi 
anceſtors”. The poorer ſort hog” er . 


nn 


fidert 5, in imitation of the Moors, fit always croſs-legged on the 
er ICC 3 | rer 

e Half ir learned men are ſo few, that they are mentioned with indig» 
une eren by thoſe of the Portugueſe themſelves, who have the 
cke | tinQure of literature. Some efforts, though very weak, 
five of late been made by the Portugueſe, to draw their country- 


om this deplorable ſtate of iguorance; but what their ſucccſs 
de, I ſball not pretend to fay.- It is univerſally allowed that 
e& is not owing to the want of genius, but of a proper edu- 
he anceſtors of the preſent Portugueſe, were certainly 
kd of more true knowledge, with regard to aſtronomy, geo- 
, and navigation, than all the world beſides, about the mid- 
the 16th century, and for ſome time aſter. Camoens, who 
{ was 2 great adventurer and voyager, was poſſeſſed of a true, 


< 7 4 


ucge.] The Portugueſe language does not differ much 
* dpain, It is univerſally ſpoken on all the coaſts of Africa 
lia, as far as China, but mixed with the languages of the ſe- 
dations in that extenſive tract of country. Their Pater Noſter 
Ws: Padre neſs gue eſtas nos Cent, ſanctiſcado ſeio o tu nome ; 
2 len refus, ſeia feita a tua votade, ai res Coos, comme na 

ase de cadatia, dans lo cie n'eftedia. E perdoa nos ſeu- 
u fas dividas, aff como nos perdeames a cs noſſos devederes. E 
deres catir cm tentatia, mas libra nes de mal. Amen. 


.] The laws of this country are all contained in three vo- 


— and founded on the civil law, and their parti- 


KiB 


Religion.] 


[ 
[ 
| 
| 
. 
| 
L 


under the influence of the Pope: The patriarch of 
2 cardinal, . hooray 


Woch abridged, beirlg taken into the hands of the oh 
Eecleſiaſtics, 


K — 


W * * u o'> wal 


elta] Their religion is popery in the 
they have a patriarch, as well as archbiſhops and bun 


bo 


The Inquiſition reigned here till lately with. as 
Bpainz the deſcendents of the Jews, who. were 
Chriſtianity, are uſually the unhappy ſufferers, on 
not fincere, but remain Jews ſtill in their hearts, 
great numbers of that nation to fly into England and 
their effects. Pretenders to witchcraft and the black 
nme roaſted with the Jews, at their Autos 

: But the power of the Inquiſition has, within Way 


n late.  . v4 


4 Curigfties.} ihe Rome Wei e 

aqueduct over a valley at Alcantara. The church 
near Liſbon, where the royal family are buried, is 
A diamond found in Braſil, eſteemed e e 


the poſſeſion of the preſent. en 1 7 


Archbiſhoprics and Biſhoprics.] The archbiſheg 
Ee, and 3. Zora. There are allo can | 


19% 


. Univerſities.) The — univerſities are, 1. Les 4 


Why oben; r ' 


of 4 ' "_ 

\(Gotp Cons or PO RTUGA 1. 
The double Moeda new coined ——— _—:_—_ 
The double Moedas rr — — 


* Wan 10 — YN X 
The half and quarter of theſe in pepe ; 
N 


| -\S12yun Com or PO RT UGALY 1 
The Cruſado, Or Ducat — — —— — — * 
ho Patac, or 1 ap — — 4 


1 Porte , accounts are kept in | Reas, an ia 
thouſand whereof make a Milrea. 
| A Conade et filver is 480. Rong: Ne > 
11 _— 


J See Spain. 55 „ 4 


* F * 3, * T 1 2 * T 
WY e | ons! af II'S 1 P * — 
* . WA, 4 * ho, FL * OY N 5 - 1 
1 by a, : - 
* $i - 
o 7 = 
— . 4 * N = n 
- * 5 * - 4 "4 i 9 
= * * 
> _ l p \ 
. - . 1 . ) 4 * * 
= La * ach 7 * % . 
4 oy 4 as - b 
4 . 1 — S" A = * 
— 1 y } \ 
- l - - 4 27 a N 40 pgs ©. * 7.0: * 1 
| | 8 r P N 7 DA eee 
*. pr U 4 8 N 4 by 4+; * . 13 2 n [4 $7 Fo 6 0 
* THz 1 1 4 1 - * 5 ; „ A 21 * 1 N 7 } 7 3 1 . 
& 3 1 Mp 11 | . 4 + wt * * * 44 2 1 4 - 64 
* bh * . if * . 4 * 11 4 1 ths 4 > 
: — — Y * * 


* q _ * 8 » 
#4 * *. : 4 G 
ws Cade „ — aig 90 * 1 9 + 9 Scots 1 \ = 
' | * = 
\ [1 


Wu 1 19 | ? 
« ». .-&E 

_ 1 « . 4 
#0. N 479 
t * K . 


* - 4 4 d 
_ , - — 4 \ _ 
7 1 
ey * LY * * F 1 * 3 
* . WW ? Y 4 N 1 
Leg "> 341 
_ . ** 1 > 
* = o : x 9 
D 9 * „„ 1-5 
* 1 pug 4 \ 4 Z 
. * — —— 6 = 


4 1 
= 2 pe bo 


— 


9 " 

2 

6 — * 17 
enn 

r 


— 
* 
-” 

* 


RB p 85 * | of > Ys T5 
e SE THERIL AND 


. * & i? * - : 
l : J : . "ye EF, 48 


wi 


wr 
— 
„„ 


＋ . 1 6 ö 
*T Poe o 1 * 

„ "Potters f  Y Bonrthen NV 
G 5 , PEEL „ 3 NM 5 he * 3 


* 


rn 


1 
— 
= 


; 
3 
: 
©. 


| L wt N.. 9 | 
© > | | 
4 * N . * 4 
— N - - ud? $9: 4 "I 17 9 
3 4 | — 0 þ % b | wi * 9 * 
- _ T [ a * * , 94 
; * « £ * 0 


| | 85 


= 
: » lag 
1 - 
a * * * 
= 
ww 
4 1 
= 
- 
hy od 
= 


1 


4 
aw” A 


ALD ITERRANDAN S 


6 . 4 Sy WER 70 | 


= 


| | ; 2. 3 | TE / 4 1 
| tune Wer tf/ram London Tar ewralrany of Tondo : | | "ak. Sia 3 t. nnn as 
* of com) eee ct K 2 i 1 — nee ern N enn 
X F a = * 1 go - 0 
ie 


*% 11: | « DIEES 2 1 'T. A.” | i 
| f | "a; Wy — ' * ts OT OS te} ' 
| | ' | ' | 11 * . * 7 een ee ele 


— k ;£ 
_ : P : 
; „ * @ 7 
8 Þ 1 * * * 2 7 
0 5498. E — Ca 
| 
, «0 K 2 . 2 0 re * 
. . = * þ *% * + «> + -& 


n = - = 
* . 
35. rn * 
* Fw 7 . . 
1 ”"» F > 0 * * > Bae * 4 $115.45 44 * 
* 2 . 4 « | l 1 o 
\ . E x [4 - 1 * K 33; 
ee ee 
g Fe . . 1 
f 5 7 * CT o $* 
| | * 
* 


Th nnn 5 | 
Tr is bounded by the Engliſh Channel and the Nether- 
lands; on the North; by Germany, Switzerland, and 
£5 by the Mediterranean and the Pyrenean mountains, 
de it from Spain, South; and by the bay of Biſcay, Weſt. 


J'This kingdom is divided, and the dimenſions of the 
rts diſtinly ſpecified in the following table, by Mr Tem- 


Orleannois 
Guienne 
Caſcoigne 
Languedoc =» 
Lyonnois 

Champagne 
Bretagne 
Normandy 
Provence 
Burgundy 
Dauphine 


Iſle of France 


French Compt 
Picardy 
Ronſillön 


Ie may be added ſeveral fine provinces, which, ſince the Re- 
aave been annexed to this kingdom by marriage, purchaſe; 
lt, viz. part of the Netherlands, which will be found un 
e Netherlands, the dutchy of Lorrain, the countries 
wer Navarre, Venaiſſin, and the iſland of Corſica. 
ſs Fanart * 

.] 1. The Alps, which divide France from Italy. 
prenees, which divide France from Spain. 3. Vauge, which 
rain from Burgundy and Alſace. 4. Mount Jura, which 
ach Compte from Switzerland. 5. The Cevennes in the 
of Languedoc; and, 6. mount Dor, in the province of 


Rivers 


= ey man of = ll 
. ' Rivers and Lakes.) The principal rivers in France any 
the Rhone, the Garonne, and the Seine. The Loire tals 
North and North-Weſt, being, with all its windings, fro 
to the ſea at Nantes, computed to run-about 560 miles, 
which riſes in Switzerland, flows on South-Weſt to Lyon 

runs on due South till it falls into the Mediterranea, ba 

"The Garonne riſes in the Pyrenean mountains, takes ita 

North Eaſt, and has a communication with the Me 
means of a canal, the work of Lewis XIV. The Seine 

W riſe, runs to the North-Weſt, viſiting Troyes, Paß 
3 its way, and falls into the Engliſh 1 at Hawe 
wee may add, the Soane, which falls into the Rhone atT 
Charente, which diſcharges itſelf into the Bay of ieh 
fort. "The Rhine, which riſes in 8wiſſerland, is the 

/ dary between France and Germany, and receives the 

' \ "the Sarte in its paſſage. The Somme, which runs Nom 

Picardy, and falls into the Engliſh channel below Abbe 

Var, which riſes in the Alps, and runs South, dividing tu 
Italy, falls into the Mediterranean Weſt of Nice. © "The 

m Eaſt to Welt, through Gaſcoigne, and falls ing 


liſcay below Bayonne __ ; 
The vaſt advantage, hoth in commerce and .convenieay 
ariſes to France from thoſe rivers, is wonderfully 'improwdf 
artificial rivers/and canals which form the chief glory of k 
3 of Lewis XIV. That of Languedoc was begun in 
and compleated in 1680: It was intended for a' cw 
_ tween the ocean and the Mediterranean, for the ſpeedie'y 
the French fleet; but though it was carried on at anna 
pence, for 100 miles, over hills and vallies, and even 
mountain in one place, it has not anfwered that pu 
+ canal of Calais, travellers eaſily paſs by water from 
Omer, Graveline, Dunkirk, Yper, and other places, IM 
Orleans is another noble work, and runs a courfe of 19 
. the immenſe benefit of the public and the royal revenue.” 
\ , © © bounds with other canals of the like kind, which renders 
* navigation inexprefiibly commodious and beneficial. 


Few lakes are found in this country. There is one & 
a hill near Alegre, which the vulgar report to be bottom 
is another at Iffoire, in Auvergne; and one at La Belleji 
if you throw a ſtone, it cauſes a noiſe like thunder. 


Port, Bays, and Caper.) The principal ports and Jay 
of Calais and Bologne in Picardy, now almoſt 
he port of Dieppe in Normandy. The ports of Ham 
Honfleur, and Harfleur, at the mouth of the Seyne, ans 
tal town and port of Rouen, higher up the fame rip i 
of Cayen, Bayeux, Cherburg, — and Avranches 
capes of Barfleur and La Hogue, are in the ſame Par j 


The harbours or bays of St Maldes, Brieur, Tregelh 


ED AMGC x 9 


acu F icen ba 208304804: enn 


of Rochelle, Rochfort, in Aunis, Bourdeaux and Bay- 
n and Ou, e 2 ating ee [award 
of Marſeilles, Toulon, and Antibes, 


ad eb a 24330 M3 ee eee eee 
ie air of France is temperate, neither ſo cold 
ie North, nor ſo hot as Spain and Italy. 
. IDE oa alqnarig ana 7 ck, haoelh 
Produce.) It produces excellent corn, wine, and oil, and 
thing deſirable in life; but there is not ſuch plenty of 


ry | 
ood paſture as in England ; the heats in many 
— up the graſs, and making the fields look like a ſandy 


but then they abound in fruit, which has a more delicious 
han ours. The South of France, about Montpelier," has 
ion of being the moſt healthy air in Europe, gentlemen 
nation ing thither, when they ſind themſelves in- 
me in Auvergne, is a ſpring which boils violently, making 
ike water thrown upon — though it has no taſte, 
Is inſtantly who drink of iti. f 
jedoc is ſaid to contain veins of gold and ſilver. Alſace has 
ſilrer and copper, but they are too expenſive to be wrought. 
r, black marble, jaſper, and coal, are found in many parts 
ngdom. Britany abounds in mines of iron, copper, ting 
At Laverdau in Cominges, there is à mine of chalk; At 
re is a mine of oker, which ſerves for melting of metals, 
Hing, particularly the beſt drab- cloths ; and in the province 
are ſeveral quarries of fine white tone. Some excellent 
(the only gem that France produces). are found in Lan- 
and great care is taken to keep the mines of marble and 
e open all over the kingdom. 1 wal 
abounds in excellent roots, which are more proper for 
i thoſe of England. As to all kinds of ſeaſoning and ſal - 
are more plentiful, and in ſome places better than in En- 
they being, next to their vines, the chief object of their cul- 
de province of Gaſtmois produces = quantities of Saffron. 
nes of Champagne, Burgundy, Bourdeaux, Gaſcony, and 
dinces of France, are ſo. well known, that they need only 
ationed. It is ſufficient to obſerve, that though they differ 
ſbly in their taſte and properties, yet all of them are excel - 
ricularly thoſe of Champagne, Burgundy; Bourdeaux, Pon» 
ermitage, and Frontiniac z and there are few conſtitutions, 
ever ſo valetudinary, to which ſome-orle-or other of them is 
pted Oak, elm, aſh, and other timber bommon in England. 
in France; but it is ſaid/ that the internal parti of the 
D begin to feel the want of fuel. A great deal of ſalt is made 
and about Rochfort on the ebaſt of Saintoigne. Langue - 
aces an herb called Kali, which when hurnt makes excellent 
3 The French formerly were famous fur horticulture, but 
ar preſent far inferior to the Engliſh both in the manage 
N | 


ment 


# 


m TT 
ment and. diſpoſition of their and 
duced at Bourdeaux and near Toulon, | * 


9 * * * 1 
«LIT ba- 14 FJ L444 a5 th 


1 


nf a1. een ene 
- Animals.) The animals are the ſame wu thoſe of 
cept wolues and chamois goats on their mountain g d 
horſes, or neat cattla, are ſo or ſo ſerviceable. 
their ſheep is much coarſer than of the Engliſh, b 


; IM. 293 5 | * an 
Manufacture. ] Their principle manufactures are lawn, 
bric, tapeſtry, woolen and ſilk manufactures, velvet, diy 
modes, leather, hard-ware, viz. -locks, ſword - blades 
_ wares, | \ Di 2 if! . . ma 


_ Traffic. ] Their foreign trade.to Italy and Turkey 
and the South of France; and from Nantz, St Malo, 
ports in the Weſt of France, to the Weſt and Ealt-Indey 
the ports in the Engliſh channel to the Baltic and th 
| but in none they have ſucceeded more, than id 
which they have in a manner monopolized: their U 
very conſiderable, eſpecially on the coaſt of Newfoundkus 
merly at Cape Breton. And have had of late a gred 
the herring fiſhery on the coaſt-of Great Britain and Shen 
Next to Henry IV. juſtly ſtiled the Great, the Tame 
a Scotſman, miniſter to Lewis XIV. may be called threw 
French commerce and manufactures... Under him t, 
appearance that France would make as illuſtrious a g 
ding, as ſhe then did as a warlike people ; but d, 
French do not naturally poſſeſs the perſeverance nete 
merce and colonization, though no people, in the, 
them better. It is to be conſi at the ſame time 
by her fituation, by the turn of her inhabitants ſor germs 
tures, and the happineſs of her ſoil, moſt be alway 
reat inland and neighbouring trade, which enriches e1 
fs the moſt reſpectable power upon the continent of Buy 
The ſilk manufacture was introduced into Frane& bu 
reign of Henry IV. and in the age of his 1 
the city of Tours alone employed 8000 looms and 50 
city of Lyons then employed 18,000 loom ; but.afters 
tion of the edict of Nantes, the expulſion of the protiſa 
ruinous wars maintained by France, they decreaſed tos 
their ſilk manufacture is now rivalled by that of England 
French proteſtants took refuge, and were happily encore 
the other hand, the French woolen cloths and ſtuſſs, mor 
at Abbevile, are ſaid to be now little inferior to-tholes 


and Holland, aſſiſted by the clandeſtine importation of 
Iriſh wool, and workmen from this countrr. 
It is a doubtful point whether the crown of France 
its ceſſion of Ca and part of Louiſiana at the late? 
the moſt valuable part of Hiſpaniola in the Weſt«Indiev? 
poſſeſſes by the partiality and indolence of Spain, is 4 


— 


1 
* 
= 


144 Jada company ſoems now to be at its laſt gaſp,” ©. 
year-#739, France may be ſaid en hawe been in che zenith 
mere. © Favoured by Spain, and dreaded by all the reſt 
hey fleets covered the ocean, but ſhe truſted too much to 
elf im portanoe. Cardinal de Fleury, who then directed 
took no care to protect her trade by proper naval arina - 
ſ@ that the nn 
poliſh. when war broke ou; It is, however, the happi 

that her wounds are ſoon cloſed, and it is hard to ſay how 
may recover alb ſue has l„ſttt.. 
breat diſadvantage to the of France is, that the 
of a merchant is not ib hdnourable as in land, aud 
e countries, ſo that the French nobiiity think it below 
dich is the reaſon that the church, che law, and the army 
of that order. A great number of the eities of France 
rrivilege of coinage;- and each of them a particular =_—_ 
puilh their reſpective pieces, Which, however, muſt be very 
ling, eſpecially: to ſtran gens. T3: 2 2h). 
infitutions of public trading companies to Canada or New 
and the Eaſt and Weſt Indies, formerly coſt the French 
menſe firms, but we know none of them now ſubſiſtiug. 
10 doubt their Weſt India trade, which is ſtill very pre 2 
eſpecially in ſugar, is under proper regulations, preſeribed 
councils of commꝶ⁴ e 8 


| ; 21798. 26862. Qt C0611 187 244d 4 £101 01 44 
aten] As to the conſtitution of the government, it appears 
r hiſtory, that they were à free people, until the reign of 
XIII.; and every province almoſt had its parliament, with. 
of concurrence no affairs of conſequence were tranſacted - 
obliged chiefly to Cardinal Richlieu ſor the deſtruction of 
itution, and rendering France an abſolute monarchy in the 
Lewis XIII. The females, by their ſalique law, are never 

to aſcend the throne. e- eh 

parliament of ante has no analogy with that of 
hritain. It was originally inſtiruted uo ferve' as à kind of 
at to the aſſembly of the States, which was of the 
ers and landholders-of the kingdom, and ever it con- 
to be a law; and at laſt, a money - court, and the members 
ad the courage of late to elaĩm a kind of negative power to 
i edits, which they can be of no validity till regi- 
them. His Moſt Chriſtian Majeſty has often tried to inva- 
Kr acts and to * perſons; but, deſpotic as he 
2 ö 185 


r 


i 


nee 


8993 


m D «Mm & 


i has never ventured to inflict any: farther-punj 
ight — — —— _ molt provokig 
ek d 3G ne 3 gHquolgbard DUR F 
m— 1 2 ſituation power 
infirmity of the French conſtitution, as the ng 3 | 
and7his, parliament. will not obey ; but itidiſcovers at the 
W nation in general thinks the parliament ME 


Sno ved vw axtly 65% 200% wa 


againſt the court, 
| he Kin om of France. i is dividedimo thirty h 
| ich is appointed a king's li 
tenlant, who pretty, much, reſembles the lord lieutenantajyl 
but their executive powers are far mare extenſive, y AU 
tice in France is adminiſtered by parliaments; hams 
courts. of aid, preſidial courts, generalities,, el a 
—. The — Dijon Gin . thoſe d 
Mow, Be Beſangon, rg —— Perpignan. 
of theſe, parliaments however are now. — Ho — 
ab of Paris is. the chief, and takes the lead in all ust 
t is divided into ten chambers. Phi grand chamber is appn 
chiefly for tlie trial of pers. The Tournelle — | 
ters of property above che value of a 1000 yres. The 
criminal receives and decides appeals from inferior a 
nal caſes. Beſides theſe, three capital chambers, there . 
requeſts for receiving the depoſitions of witneſſes, and d 
es, pretty much in the — ere . ade 
ery and the excheq ue. * 
On the 22d of February, 1271, Aber a long a 
- gle with his parliamenta, the French ki — an lid , 
lowing effect: That as the juriſdiction of of 
*g too extenſive, eaching from Lyons, in the South ef Nu 
ras, in French Flanders, Northward j which great diſtance 0 
much expence to his ſubjects, who might be . — 
Paris for the proſecution of their law affairs, his Maj had! 
fit to branch the parliament of Paris into fix — | 
under the denomination of ſuperior ccurtis each parllamem 
ſimilar juriſdickion; and that his Majeſty r 
reſpeQive ſalaries, on the under written eſtabliſhments: M 


* * hold during une 0 As 07 TRI. $ 
_ A. firk preſident 124 10 ſubſtitutes 19 ee i 
340% A 2 ſubaltern melde 1 greffier civil 4 e 
7 20 counſellors 1 greffier- criminal £7 
I ſaliczor-general - 24 attornies dy bees 1 


{41 attorney - general | 12 huſſiers eee 
And it is conjectured, chat all the parliaments ir 
new-modelled after this regulation, which will tutally a 
remaining liberties of that unhappy nation 197 | 

Aſter the reader has been — of the cradle. 
mate, and fertility of the ſoil in France ; her aumerone 
tures, and extenſive commerce; her great cities, nume 
ſea ports, rivers, and canals; the cheapneſs of proviſions 
and liquors ; the formidable armies and fleets ſue has f 


nation; av peiſenty'; non bin ot od oth, 922 3,6 
+ it is, that i r ern - 
ind — in men and money; but, 
is they are, by a wrong application have proved ruinous c 
body of the people. The moſt obvious cauſes of this na- 


ag and leading men, Which led chem änto ſehemes of uns- 


which they ſometimes carried on again{t one half of Europe, 
which they were generally unfortunate, led them into diffi· 
to which the ordinary revenues were inadequate z and hence 
ded the arbitrary demands upon the ſubject, under various 


„uch as ran 


| methods, more deſpotic and un 
id reducing the value of money as it ſui 
bankrupteies, and many grievous oppreſſions, were adop- 


of trade, commerce, and agriculture, the fruits of which no 
ld Call his wn. hot rn eier tote an 270 


ppears too plain; from their late conqueſt of Corſica, as well 


ppht them wiſdom or humanity, for while they thus graſp af- 
gu conqueſt, their own countty(exhibitoa pictute o miſery 
gary. Their towns, a very few excepted; make a moſt diſ- 
dd ſolita | The ſhops are mean beyond deſerip- 
aud the s, who ſaunter a labyrinth of nar- 
ry ſtreets, appear to be chiefly compoſed of prieſts and devo» 
g to or from maſs; hair-dreffers; and be That 
the appearance of their towns and many of their cities, we 
ppeal to the obſervation of any one'who: — xy. 4 
Were it poſſible to mention a pevple more-indigent than theſ 

we might deſcribe the farmers: and. peaſants. We have in 
place mentioned the natural advantages of France, where 


1 
in 


at crops of wheat, rye, and barleyl Amiidſt this profuſion 
ty, the farmer and his family barely exiſt upon the glean” 
and his cattle, which are ſeldom numerous, pick a ſubfiſtance 
the Summer months from the ſkirts of his fields. Here the 
meagre, diſpirited, and depreſſed, exhibits a ſpectaele of in- 
hardly credible ; and to ſee him plowing tlie ground with a 
W, an afs, and a goat, yoked together, excites in an En- 
raveller that pity to which human nature is entitled. He fer- 
country while he feels for the nan 

y. of the taxes and revenues in France are let out for a time 
belt bidder, or, as it is there called, farmed; and theſe har - 
general, and tlieir underlimgs make no ſeruple of 
8 the people moſt unmercifully;z and the refidue, if any do re- 

main, 


the 


poverty ſecin to have ariſen from tlie ambition and vanity of 
dominion, and the aggrandizriiient of their name. Their | 


in the names of loans, free-gifts; t When theſe fail - 
We! * 
hich gave the finiſhing blow to public credit;z-thodk'thefouns 


general drift of their politics, that theſe natipmal evi has 


are covered with grapes, and moſt extenſive plains produce = 


with a certain ſum, to be paid annually. A op 
exerciſed in full vi » and taxes increaſing, theve 
eit probability that the bulle of che — 
A paninibale progto Us SOR 
then. ron W ine Hers 4 Nan 8 6 

8 Ri % enn oy from wtf noo lt te Re 
' » King's titles} French King ſtiles himſelf Levi 

Cre 5: hy Bates a6 dh — 
. mere wut 

__ 
er his 


19221 


4143417 t35h2v 1 E Mor inne 
Ane. The — — — flowers de la, 
a field. azure, ſupported by t wo a in the habits of 1 
. „vith the ſame 
is an crown the whole under a 

irewed: with flowers de lis, or, and ermins, and over it i; du 
with a double flower de lis, or on the ſides uf it art thin 
ers, on which are written the words uſed. im batte Jha 
Dennis ;.. —— RIPE royal bannda/ 0s af 
n ON IA Si 40 2 1.7 14 RG YR 


47 < e \ 
Fern The nobility of France — fowredagin | 
| * 


rate er —2— — — —— p three of 
debedics with Duboeothraicthiars archbiſhop of Rheims,-and 
thops of Langres and Leon; the other three eccleſiaſties were 
wa. the biſhop! of Beuvois, the biſhop of Chalonsz GR 
Noyons; . The three Lay-Dukes were the Duke of Burge 
Duke of Normandy, and the Duke of Gaienns : Lade 
were thoſe of Champaigne, Flanders, and Thoulonie: 
Peerages have been re- united to the crown, encept Fanden 
at prefent has another ſovereign'; and the kings o Fran 
created many Dukes, Counts, and Peers, without limiting 
any certain number nr 
——— 5 b 03 Gf 
UTE ARES OCCUR OT BR | 
nights.) The Knights of the order of the Hey hel 
with the higher — ie e Gere 
= Lieutenants. genera Tr 2 51 
| Thethree ordeen of Kni in”. France, are thee 
Mg che order of the\ Ghoſt, and the order af 


pains ofthis oder before he eee har of the Help 
of the Holy Ghoſt was inftiented, in 1578, by Heney | 


without including the and is conferred on the 
of the blood, Peers, and n r e 


der of & Lewis was infticured in the year 1693. * 
| j was deſigned purely forthe encouragement of 
offers of the army. 


] — — 5 
and in time of war 400,000, beſides a formidable fleet of men 
; they had not leſs than 100 ſhips of the line in the reign-of 
(IV. But their royal navy was almoſt deſtroyed in the late 


S ——— 


ve.) The ordinary —— ede 6: 
en and eight millions ſterling,” and they are enlarged ak 
— the value of the coin, g 

5 other arbitrary meaſures. For, after the long 
i beginning of the preſent century, the crown of France 
Me about 100 millions ſterling ; and yet the regent, (in 
it king's minority) within about four years, reduced 
kt to about 17 millions: But as this was done by altering 
of their money, and by other acts of deſpotiſm, fuch'a 


tlike the banktuptcy of a proſſigate: And ſince the end of 
ru, they being reduced to nearly the above · mentioned cir- 
ces, a method, "alot fimilar to the former, has been hg 
to render the revenue leſs incumbered. | 


J The uſual method of raiſing cares is by the Till, o 


Tall, which the nobility are obliged to pay as well as the 
bs, is only another land - tax. 

, which we call cuſtoms on merchandize, | 

ficke which is a tax upon falt. | 
capitation or poll tax. Die eto earn alot 
te tenths of eſtates and employments. Wan tis eee, 
ie fale of all offices of juſtice, eee. 

tenth, or free gift of the clergy. 

ourt have lately required the el to give in the full value 
eſtates, that they may judge w Fes their free 
510 the taxes paid by the lait. 

V by confiſcations and en. | 


1 


KH. 


SEXES 


B. > 
SD £- 


* 
1 . 2 
% * = - * 


on France nd Poland, This order is compoſed of 100 


* 


) of the debt was a breach of the national honour, not i 


* 7 


4 


— 


= 
9 
=”) 
- 


N A NG EB 


dete, Manners, cv.; — Wiiel 
mm, and Diverfions: '- | and other French rium 


| try. contains. 22,000,000 of inhabitants; but the [cali 
tainly overſtrained by at leaſt 6,000,000, and. of then 
rn are eceleſiaſtics. L thall not . diſpute the 
rance in former times, but it is certain that — 
natives, and thoſe too the moſt uſeful to the publie, hu 
the laſt and preſent century, been greatly reduced, fit, jy 
vocation of the edi& of Nantes, by Lewis XIV. ande 
ous perſecutions ; ſecondly. by her perpetual wars ; third 
ts to her colonies. Some writers make perhaps thy 
— when they fix them at 13, 000, 000. W 
eyer that there 2:6 Nb population i in their i 
vinces. neee 

The French, in their perſons, are rather Fats than ther 
bours; but they are well proportioned and active hd 
than other nations in general from bodily, deformities, I 
are celebrated more for their ſprightlhy wit, than perſoad 
the peaſantry in general are remarkably ordinary, at ait 
ſcribed by being contraſted with women of the ſame'ranksia 

The nobility and gentry accompliſh themſelves in i 
exerciſes of dancing, fencing, and riding: in the pradtices 
they excel all their neighbours in {kill and gracetuliels 
fond of hunting; and the gentry have now left off their hay 
boots, their huge war- ſaddle, and monſtrous curb-bridh, | 
exerciſe ; and accommodate themſelves to the Engliſh man 
landlords are as jealous of their game as they are in 
22 d of it to their inferiors. A few of ti 

„and nobility, are more magnificent n 
= equipages than any of the Engliſh; but the other tun 
are deſpicable, when compared to the riches, elegance; ande 
not only of the Engliſh nokility and . in uy but 
middling people. 

The 8 genius and manners of the French are well es 
tional vanity is their predominant character, and they are 
the only A ever heard of, who have derived great ui 
national weakneſs. It ſupports them under misfortunes, 4d 
them to actions to which true courage inſpires other nations. 
racter, however, i is conſpicuous only in the higher and er | 
where it produces excellent officers, for the common ſoldiers 
have few or no ideas of heroiſm. Hence it has been bien 
great juſtice, of the French and Engliſh, that the Fre 
will lead, if their ſoldiers will follow, and the Engliſh" 
follow, if their officers will lead. This ſame/principle-of 
admirable uſe to the government,” becauſe; the lower ranks 
they ſee their ſuperiors 8 as in oy time of the lal ® 


'S L. 


. In whe, FLOG. 8 n and; ah fb 
after fighting is way to the crown of France, paſſed the famous cdi 
which — to the Proteſtants the free exerciſe of their cent, Go = * 
revoked by Lewis XIV. which, with the preceding perf 
;0 Enghaod, Holland, and other Proteſtant countries, where they 
© manufaQtures, to the great prejudice of their own country. 


FAT NT © 'E 109 
under the moſt diſgraceful loſſes, never think that they are 
te; thence proceeds the paſſive ſubmiſſion of the French 
their calamitie s. N 1 
ach affect freedom and wit, but their converſation is com- 
ned to faſhionable dreſſes and diverſions. Their diver- 
nuch the ſame with thoſe of the Engliſh, but their gallan - 
; very different completion. Their attention to the fairy 
Wes into groſs foppery in the men, and in the ladies it is 
y admitting of indecent freedoms ; but the ſeeming levities 
res are ſeldom attended with that criminality which, to 
uſed to their manners, they ſeem to indicate; nor are the 
ſo indifferent as we are apt to imagine, about the conduct 
ves. The French are exceſſively credulous and litigious z, 
| people in the world, they bear adverſity and reduction of 
ces with the beſt grace; but in profperity they are intole- 
ent, vain, arbitrary, and imperious. An old French of- 
| entertaining and inſtructive companion, and indeed the 
nal ſpecies of all the French gentry. 3. ; 
ench may be characterized as being well mangered, rather 
bred. They are indiſcriminately complaiſant and officious, 
ſeldom know how to adjult their behaviour to the ſituation 
ater of thoſe they converſe with. All is a repeated round of 
which for want of diſcernment becomes affected, often 
, and always diſguſtful to ſentimental people. 425 
ach have been cenſured for infincerity z but this is a fault 
5 poſſeſs in no greater degree than their neighbours, and 
tion is generally owing to their exceſs of civility, which 
ſuſpicious light upon their candour. In private life, they 
as much virtue as other European nations, and have given 
proofs of generoſity, and diſintereſtedneſs; but this is far 
g the character of their goverament, which has prepoſleſ- 
Agliſh againſt the whole nation, and when the French are 
F formidable, they will be no longer thought faithleſs. | 
ding them no more than juſtice to acknowledge that they 
n a poliſh to the ferocious manners and even virtues of other 
They have long poſſeſſed the lead in taſte, faſhion, and 
It it ſeems now to be in the wane, and they begin to think, 
Engliſh are not barbarians- This alteration of opinion has 
ver taken its riſe from their wits, their learned men; their 
nor the middle ranks of life. The ſuperior orders of men 
| are of a very different caſt from thoſe below them. They 
ndignation the frivolouſneſs of their court, and however 
g they may appear in public, when retired, they keep them- 
red from its follies. Independent by their rank and fortunes, 
Ik and act for themſelves. They are open to conviction, and 
things to the bottom. They ſaw, during the late war the 
dent of their armies, their finances and fleets, with ſilent 
on, and their reſearches were favourable to the Engliſh. 
lulion of the late peace, and the viſits which they have fince 
England, have improved that good opinion, the couriers 
55 have fallen in with it, and what ſome years ago would 
a thought incredible, people of faſhion in France now a | 


7 


106 + 2A NM e 
the Engliſh language, and imitate them in their cu 
ments, dreſs, and buildings. They both imitate" aid 
writers; the names of Milton, Pope, Addiſon, Hus 
Richardſon, and many others of the laſt and preſenta 
ſacred among the French of any education; and 9 
the writings of ſuch men have equally contributed, v 
reputation, to raiſe the name of Great Britain, th thai 
which it has been held of late by fereign nations, and 
language more univerſal, and even a neceſſary ſtudy ang 
nobMity. > But we cannot-quit this article of the mans 
toms of the French, without giving a moe mining 
diſtinguiſhing peculiarities obſervable among that whinl 
in private life, and this from the remarks of an ingen 
informed writer of the preſent age. 
The natural levity of the French, fays he, is rea 
moſt prepoſterous education, and the example of # gill 
engaged in the moſt frivolous purſuits. & French 
prieſt or monk taught to read his mother tongue ad 
prayers in a language he does not underſtand. Hen 
and to fence by the maſters of thoſe- ſciences, He beans 
pleat connoiſſeur in drefling hair, and in adorning live 
under the hands and inſtructions of his barber and vate 
If he learns to play upon the flute or the fiddle, beg 
reſiſtible. But he piques himſelf upon being poliſhedabs 
tives of any other country, by his converſation with thew 
the courſe of this communicatian, with which he windy 
his tender years, he learns like a parrot, by rote, them 
of French compliments, which are a ſet of phraſes man 
to a proverb; and theſe he throws out indiſcrimuane 
women without diſtinction, in the exerciſe of that mace 
which. is here diſtinguiſhed-by the name of gallantry; R 
ciſe, by the repetition of which he becomes very pert; vaſt 
and very impertinent. A Frenchman, ia. conſequence « 
gling with the females from his infancy, not only becomes 
ed with all their cuſtoms and humours, but grows Wen 
in performing a thouſand little ofiees, which are oyerlooked 
men, whoſe time hath been ſpent in making more Wu, 
tions. He enters, without ceremony, a lady*s beds, 
the is in bed, reaches her whatever the wants, airs ber 
helps to put it pn. He attends at her toilette, regulates 
tion of her patches, and adviſes where to lay on the pan 
viſits her when the is dreſſed; and perceives the leaſt i 
her coeffure, he inſiſts upon adjuſting it with his own hue 
ſees a curl, or even a ſingle hair amiſs, he produces 
ſeiſſars, and pomatum, and ſets it to rights with the van 
profeſſed frizeur. He ſquires her to every place ſhie Mig 
bufineſs or pleafure ; and, by dedicating his whole time x 
ders himſelf neceſſary. In ſhort, of all the coxcombs 
of the earth, a French petit maitre is the moſt impemm 
they are all petits maitres, from the marquis who glitter n 
embroidery, to the garcon barbiere, (barber's boy) con 
meal, who ſtruts with his hair in a long queue, | 
bis arm. al 


IE ¹wr 
| | J'S 2 3 
2 N C E. "n07 | 

i chman will ſooner part with his religion than his hair. Even 

tin France wear a queue; and this ridiculous fop- : 
deſcended to the loweſt claſs of people. The boy who 

Jes at the corner of a ſtreet, has a tail of this kind hanging 


his rump; and the beggar who drives an aſs wears his hair 
though, perhaps, he has nekher ſhirt nor breeches. ' 


that on ation one cuſtom more, which ſeems to carry tm» 

160 ation to the very fartheſt verge of folly and extravagance: 

110g he manner in which the faces of the ladies are primed and p 
nen It is generally ſuppoſed that part of the fair ſex, in ſome 

view tatries, make uſe of ſuru and vermillion for very different 

if namely, to help a bad or faded complexion, to heighten 

2100s z, or conceal the defects of nature, as well as the [ravages 


I ſhall not inquire whether it is juſt and honeſt to 'impoſe 
banner on mankind z if it is not honeſt, it may be allowed 
gidh ſul and politic, and ſhews, at leaſt, à deſire of being agree - 


no lay it on as the fafhion in France preſcribes to all the 
and 1 condition, who indeed cannot appear without this badge of 
eam. n, is to diſguiſe themſelves in ſuch à manner as to render 
econg vous and deteſtable to every ſpectator who has the leaſt retifh 
is on ature and propriety. As for the fard or wh/te, wich which 


et det ks and ſhoulders are-plaiftered; it may be in ſome meaſure 
„as their ſkins are naturally brown, or fallow'; but the 
abou ich is daubed on their faces, from the chin up to the eyes, 
the leaſt art or dexterity, not only deſtroys all diſt inction of 
but renders the aſpect really frighrful, or at leaſt conveys 
but ideas of diſguſt and averſion. Without this horrible 
married lady is admitted at court, or in any polite aftembly, 


lk of diftineion, which none of the lower claſſes dare 

nd d : 0 F a ; 0 , 
| rench dreſs in cities and towns-is ſo variable, chat it is next a 

veryh ſible to deſeribe it. They certainly have more invention in 

e of ticular than any of their neighbours, and their conſtantly 


mes their faſhions is of infinite ſervice to their mannfactures. 
egard to the Engliſh, they poſſeſs one capital ſuperiority, 
okedY „ that the cloaths of both ſexes, and their ornaments, are 
uadl one third cheaper. 

i 2 ſtranger arrives in Paris he finds it neceſſary to ſend for 
'or, peruquier, hatter, ſhoemaker, and every other tradeſ- 
the neerned in the equipment of the human body. He mult e- 
paint nge his buckles, and the ſorm of his ruffles : And, though 
ilk of his life, fuit his cloaths to the mode of the ſeaſon. 
haods mple, though the weather ſhould be ever ſo cold, he muſt 
E Habit d ete, or demi ſaiſon, without preſaming to put on a 
Ire's before the day which ſaſhion has fixed for that purpoſe; 
ter old age nor infirmity will exeuſe a man for wearing his 


e to n his head, either at home or abroad. Females are, if poſ- 
0 11] more ſubject to the caprices of fafhion. All their ſacks 

e pligees muſt be altered and new trimmed. They muſt have 
$10 Ps, mew laces, new ſhoes, and their hair new cut. They 


we their taffeties for the Summer, their flowered filks for the 
and Autumn, their ſattins and damaſks ſor Winter. The men 
oh too 


* * * « »* = 


"Jv 
T 


too muſt provide themſelves with a camblet ſuit trimmedsj 
for Spring and Autumn, with ſilk cloaths for Summer, adj 
ced with gold, or yelvet for Winter; and be.multwear hi 
a la pigeon. - This variety of dreſs js abſolutely indien 
hoſe who pretend to any rank aboye the mere yulgarz 
from the king downwards, uſe powder; and even the mhbly 
ing to their abilities, imitate their ſuperiors in the (ripper 
Dion, The common people of the country, however, ti 
without any material deviation, the old faſhioned mode 
the large hat, and moſt enormous jack-boots, with: fuital 
and this contraſt is even perceivable a few miles from? 
large cities, the clergy, lawyers, phyſicians, and merchant 
rally dreſs in black; and it has been obſerved; that the In 
tion, in their modes of dreſs, are in ſome meaſure governed! 
_ © mercial cireumſtan ce. > 46. 
Like the other nations of Europe, this for many cent 
immerſed in barharity The firſt learning they began 
conſiſted in a ſubtle and qujbbling logic, which was morea 
per vert than to improve the faculties. But the ſftudz f 
and Roman writers, - which firſt aroſe in Italy, diffuſed it 
the French, and gave a new turn to their literary pu 
together with the encouragement which the polite an leand 
cis I, gave to all men of merit, was extremely” beneficial 
literature. During this reign, many learned men 
France, whoſe labours are well known and highly eſteemed 
Europe. The two Stephens, in particular, are name v 
real ſcholar mentions with reſpect. It was not, hene 
I yth century, that the French began to write with elegance 
own language. The Academe Francoiſe was formed for 
and though their labours, conſidered as a body, were not 
ſul as might have been expected, ſome particular academia 
done great ſeryice to letters. In ſact literary copartnerlus 
dom very ſucceſsful, Of this we have a remarkable chan 
| vr caſe. The academy publiſhed a diQtionary for impn 
rench language: it was univerſally deſpiſed... Furetiereh 
academician, publiſhes another: it mgets with univerls 
tion. 
Ihe protection which Lewis XIV. gave to letters, and ide 
he beſtowed on learned men, both at home and 
calculation, did not amount to above 12, 000 I. per a 
ained him more glory than all the military enterpriſes, up 
K expended ſo many millions. The learned men whoa 
France during this reign, are too numerous to be mente 
all the eſtabliſhments of Lewis XIV. for the advancementd 
were not able to counterbalance the influence of the clergy 
intereſt it is to keep mankind ignorant in matters of rel 
morality; and the influence of the court and miniſtry, vs 
equal intereſt ig concealing the natural rights of mankind, 
ry ſound principle of government. The French have da! 
ſo many good writers on moral, religious, or-polit 
have appeared in Great - Britain. | | 
In the Belles Lettres and miſcellaneous way, no nave 


— 


2 O00 000.0; . 109 
more agreeable writers among whom we may place D'Ar, 
aud | 4 Voltaire as the moſt conſiderable. | 1 
re Newton appeared in England, Deſcartes was the greateſt 
pher i8 modern times. He was the firſt who applied algebra 
ſolution of geometrical problems, which naturally paved the 
\ the analytical diſcoveries of Newton. Many of the preſent 
excellent mathematicians ; particularly D*Alembert, who, 
1 the preciſion of à geometer, has united the talents of a ſine « Þ 


des e | | | 

. the beginning of the preſent century, the French have vied | 
re Englith in natural philoſophy, Buffon would deſerve to be 
bank ed among men of ſcience, were he not ſtill more remarkable 


eloquence than for his philoſophy. He is to be regarded as 
ned] ſophical painter of nature; and under this view, his natural 
is the firſt work of its kind. 1 250 en 

ir painters, Pouſſin, Le Brun, and above all Le Sueur, did 
n to to the age of Lewis XIV. They have none at preſent to 
re with them in the more noble kinds of painting; but Mr 
ſor portraits and converſation pieces, neyer perhaps was 
d. , a * WE 
oecure is in general better underſlood in France than in En- 

0 or in any other nation, Their treatiſes on ſhip · building and 

ial tg ing ſtand unrivalled z but in the practice of both they are 
apf je by the Engliſh. No genius has hitherto equalled Vauban 
med theory or practice of fortification. ''The: French were long our 
nin architecture, tho“ we now bid fair for ſurpaſſing them 
ever, art, . 5 
ance hall conclude this head with obſerving, that the French Cyclo- 
or General dictionary of arts and ſciences, which was drawnup 
molt able maſters in each branch of literature, in 28 volumes 

„ (fix of which are copper - plates) under the direction of meſ- 
I'Alembert and Diderot, is the moſt complete collection of 
Log Knowledge we are acquainted with, | 

, in French Flanders, is thought to be the moſt regular and 
eres ell fortification in Europe, and was the maſter-piece of the fa- 
Vauban. It is generally garriſoned with above 10, ooo re 

and for its magnificepce and elegance, it is called little Paris. 
[Le Soufafures of filk, cambric, and camlets, are very conſider- 
and its inhabitants amount to about ro0,000. Dunkirk, 
any! the French have been obliged to demoliſh, is ſtill a thorn in 


— 


„ upd le of the Engliſh, by being à harbour for their ſmugglers. 
„ appt t of French —— and its Netherlands, abound with for - 
enn ers, which carry on very gainful manufactures. 2 

nt df ng Southward we come to the iſſe of France, the capital of 


erg and the whole kingdom, is Paris. This city has been ſo of- 


a bed, that ic may appear ſuperfluous to mention it more 
who arly, were it not that the vanity of the French has given it a 
od, race, which.it by no means deſerves, to all. the capitals in the 
not l n every reſpect, not excepting even the number of its inha- 


Many of the Engliſh have been impoſed upon in this re- 


1 one reaſon is, the computing from the births and buri- 


un the bills of mortality, which exclude the moſt populous 


. Pariſhes 


"ou 


tro F AK M d 8 


a rihes about London. Another miſtake lies in en 

' births and marriages. The number of diſſenters of A 
about London, who do not regiſter the births of ther 
dating; and many of the poorer ſort cannot afford thew 
tuch regiſtration. Another peculiarity exiſting in L 
moſt of che Londoners, who can afford the erpeneg 

find themſelves conſumptive, or otherwiſe indiſpoſed meth 
country, where they are buried, and thereby eren 
bills ot mortality. The population of Paris therefore, whe 
iſters are more exact and acceſſible to the poor, au whe 
gion and police are more uniform and tri, is far more 
certained than that of London; and by the beſt ain 

not exceed 7 or 800,000, which is far ſtiort of the "nhl 
London and the contiguous pariſhes. 4 . 
This city is divided into three parts; the eity, the una 

that which was formerly called the town. The ttyl 

the umverſity and the town are the new. Paris conta lt 

of public mutiificence than utility. Its palaces are more 
Tome of its ſtreets, ſquares, hotels, hoſpitals, aud chte 
faperbly decorated with a profuſion of paintings, tapeſtiꝶ i 
Matnes 3 but notwithſtanding its boaſted police, it is grethi 
to London in many of the conveniences of life, and theft 
ments of fociety. Without entering into more mine A 
Paris, it muſt be owned, is the paradiſe of ſplendor ada 
The tapeſtry of the Gobelines * is uneqtalied for beaity® 
mefs. The Louvre is a btilding that does:honotr to 

felf ; and the inſtitution of the French academy far esc 

of the kind in England or elſewhere. The Tuilleries, We) 
Orleans, or, as it is called, Luxemburg, where "3 o_—_ 
Nection of paintings are ſhewn, the Royal palace, che 
the Guild. Hall, and the hoſpital for invalids, are tapes 

= Higheſt degree. The city of Paris is ſaid to be HHH 
1 cumference. The hotels of the French nobleſſe dt Pa 
| great deal of room, with their court-yards and gardens} 
their convents and churches. The ſtreets are very narron; 
Houſes very high, many of them ſeven Norites. - The? 
Huilt of ſtone, and are generally mean, even to w. 
partly to their containmg a different family on every 
river Seine, which runs thro” the centre of the "city, 5 
Farge as the Thames at London'; it is too far "diſtant tron 


| for the purpoſes of navigation, and is not furniſhed WW 
with veſſels or boats of any ſort : over it are many fone 3 
dridges, which have nothing to recomtnend them. © TY ink 
Paris are generally crowded, particularly with cbacheg W Su 
that capital the appearance of wealth and grandeur: though ine. 
fte 


ality there is more ſhow than ſubſtance. The glittering" 
that dazzle the eyes of ſtrangers, are moſtly common um 
by the day or week to the numerous ' foreigners who viſit Of 


One Goblei, a noted dyer at Rheims, was the firſt who ſettledin 8 
the reign of Francis I. and the houſe has retained his name ever ſince; 
great Colbert, about the year 1667, eſtabliſhed that valuable manula&aT 


F. R AN CHE, = 


ith, the greateſt part of the trade of Paris ariſes from the 
fccefion of Rrangers that arrive daily from every nation 
ter of the globe. This aſcendeney over other nations, is 
edly owing to the reputation of their ene their public 
„ the Gobelines, or manufadture of. tapellry, their libraries, 
ecions of paintings, that are open to the publicy the cheap- 
proviſions, excetlency of the French wines, and above alli 
ty of the air and climate in France. With all theſe advan- 
owever, Paris, in general, will not bear a compariſon wich 
in the more eſſential circumſtances of a thriving foreign and 
trade, the cleanneſs of their ſtreets, elegance of their houſes, 
- within ; the plenty of water, and that of a better quality 
Seine, which is ſaid to be productive of the ſtone in the 
- their ſmall wines alſo diſagree with ſtrangers. Moſt of the 
re of brick, and have no other kind of cleaning than that of 
priakled with water, and ſwept once a day. Theſe brick 
e ſtone ſtairs, the want of wainſcotting in che rooms, and/ 
k party- walls of ſtone, are, however, good preſervatives a- 
re, which ſeldom. does any damage in this city. Inſtead o 
ing, the walls are covered with tapeſtry or damaſk. The 
general are very good, and well ornamented, with teſter and 
3; but bugs are here a moſt-intolerable nuiſance, which fre- 
oblige ſtrangers to ſleep on the floor during the exceſſive 
the Summer. Their ſhops are but poorly ſtored with goods; 
their government made the proviſions that are ever in its 
or the comfort of the inferior ranks; its whole attention 
to be directed to the conveniency and ſplendor of the great. 
dpkeepers and tradeſmen, an indolent loitering people, ſeldom 
heir appearance before dinner in any other than a morning 


le of the ſame rank in London. In Paris, the women pack 
els, enter che orders, and do moſt of the drudgery buſineſs 
op, while the huſband loiters about, talks of the great, of 


f velvet cap, ſilk night-gown, and Morocco ſlippers ; hut 
ern dey intend a viſit or going abroad, all the punctihios of a 
nils are attended to, and hardly the reſemblance of a man re- 
6 There is a remarkable contraſt between this claſs of people 


och, and diverſions, the invincible force of their armies, and the 
Ro: of the grand monarque. The Pariſians, however, as weld 
0 natives of France in general, are remarkably temperate in 
of ng, and to be intoxicated with liquor is conſidered as infa- 
he Bread, and all manner of butchers meat and poultry, are 
m0 good in Paris; the beef is excellent; the wine they gene- 
4 nk, is a very thin kind of Burgundy. The common people, 
bd Summer ſeaſon, live chiefly on bread; butter, grapes, and 
ugh ine, The Pariſians ſcarcely know” the uſe of tea, but they 
0 Ditce in plenty, The police of Paris is ſo well attended to, 
arels, accidents, or felonies, ſeldom happen; and- ſtrangers 


= 
1 


cx 


| quarters of the globe, let their appearance be ever ſo uu- 
% meet with the moſt polite treatment. The ſtreets are pa- 
a night by horſe and foot, ſo judiciouſly ſtationed, that no 
can eſcape their vigilance. They likewiſe viſit the publicans 
7 at the hour of twelve at nizht, to ſce that the company are 
| gone; 


3 


gone; for in Paris no liquor can be had after that time, 


\ 


d C ; | 1 | 
- . [2 : ' % , : 
” = * 0 l 6 * * . 
c * Py * — * RS 0 
. FAA l E. 17 


5 ſine ſeats, ſmall towns, and villages; ſome of them being 
on the edges of lofty mountains riſing from the Seine, are n 


though magnificent and expenſive beyond conception, a 


of many rocks lying under water. At Breſt is a cout 


poſed in the greateſt order. 


\ bbaſt of more valuable remains of Antiquity than France 


., Unir kings, which have been diſcovered ſo far back as Pb 


J „ 


* * * * "IC % \ 
T a EY — 2 0 ” by 3 
0 , 
* = 


* 


ic roads in France are under the ſame excellent regulation 
with. the torture of the rack, prevents robberies .in that 
but, for the ſame reaſons, when robberies do happeny the 
ways attended with the death of the unfortunate traveller; 
deed this is the general practice in every country in«Eurgi 
gland and Scotland excepted; - -, +46 
be invirons of Paris are very pleaſant, and containamm 


. ably delightful. od an 
- The palace of Verſailles, which ſtands about 12 miles fron 


with all that art can furniſh, is properly a collection of bull 
each of exquiſite architecture, but not forming a whole, ay 
to the grand and ſublime of that art. The gardens, kowen 
water - works (which are ſupplied by means of prodigious en 
croſs the- Seine at Marli, about three miles diſtance) att alk 
proofs of the fertile genius of man, and highly 'worthy of 
ger's attention. Trianon, Marli, St Germain en Laye, 
and other royal palaces, are laid out with taſte and jndgment 
has its peculiar beauties-for the entertainment and amulement 
luxurious court; but ſome of them are in a ſhameful con 
as to repairs and cleanlineſs. . pl, 4 

| Breſt is a ſmall, but very ſtrong town, upon the Eng 
with a molt ſpacious and fine fortified road and harbour, 
and ſafeſt in all the kingdom; yet its entrance is diflicult;, a 


an academy for ſea affairs, docks and magazines for,all kind 
val ſtores, rope · yards, ſtore-houſes, &c. inſomuch, that it al 
be termed the capital receptacle on the ocean for the navy 
France, and is admirably well adapted for that end. 
Lewis XIV. rendered 'Toulon, from a pitiful vis a { 
of great importance. He fortified both the town and barbs 
the reception and protection of the navy royal. Its old a 
harbour lie contiguous; and by means of a canal, thips ps 
the one to the other, both of them having an outlet into thei 
outer harbour. Its arſenal, eſtabliſhed alſo by that king, bu 
ticular ſtorehouſe for each ſhip of war, its guns, cordage, 6 
ſeparately laid up. Here are ſpacious- workſhops for be 
joiners, carpenters, lockſmiths, carvers, &c. Its rope 
ſtone is 380 toiſes in length, with three arched walks. Ja 
magazine ſupplies whatever may be wanting in the particu 
houſes, and contains an — quantity — all kinds of ton 


_ Antiquities: and Curioſtties. ] Few countries, if we except l 
the French antiquities belong to the time of the Celts, a 


quently, compared to them, thoſe of Rome are modern 
Mabillon has given us a moſt curious aceount of the fen 


. ny 
of them when broke open were, ſound to contain ornaments 
of value. At Rheims, and other parts of France, are to 
fiumphal arches;; but the moſt entire is at Orange, erected 
at of the victory obtained over the Cimbri and Jeutones by 
Lins and Luctatius Catulus. + After Gaul was reduced to a 
province. the Romans took vaſt delight in adorning it witch 
ont edifices, both civil and. ſacred, ſome of which are more 
an any to be met with in Italy itielf. The ruins of an am- 
are to be found at Chalons, and likewiſe at Vienne. Niſ- 
erer, exhibits the moR valuable remains of ancient archi- 


any place in France. The famous Pont du Garde was 
the Auguſtin age by the Roman colony of Niſmes, to con- 


| bam of water between two mountains, for the uſe of that 
f by is as freſh to this day as Weſtminſter bridge: it conſiſts of 
en af Joes, or tires of arches one above another; the height is 
neo and the length extends to 723. The moderns are indebt- 


, and many other ſtupendous aqueducts, to the ignorance 
ients, that all ſtreams will riſe as high as their heads. Many 
js of antiquity are found at Niſmes, but the chief is the tem- 
ana, whoſe veltiges are ſtill remaining. The amphitheatre, 
_—_ Arenes, which is thought to be the fineſt and moſt entire 
xd of any in Europe; above all, the houſe erected by the 
Adrian, called the Maiſon Carrie. The architecture and 
of this building is ſo exquiſitely beautiful, that it enchants 
moſt ignorant, and it is ſtill entire, being very little affec: 
My} by the ravages of time, or the havock of war. At Paris 
n the remains of the palace of Therme ; which was built 
nperof Julian, ſurnamed the Apoſtate, about the year 356, 
ſame model as the Baths of Diocleſian. The remains of 
it edifice are many arches, and within them a large ſal- 
8 fabricated of a kind of maſtic, the compoſition of which 
known, intermixed with mall ſquare pieces of free ſtone - 
in Provence is to be ſeen an obeliſk of oriental granite, 
52 feet high, and ſeven feet diameter at the baſe, and all 
dne, Roman temples are frequent in France. At Lyons 
mains of that built by the ſixty nations in Gaul, in honour 

Ws and the Romans. The moſt particular are in Burgun- 
biienne, and other places beſides the wr es of 


black eontzin magnificent ruins of aqueducts. The paſſage cut 
open middle of a rock near Briancon in Dauphiny, is thought 
oY woman work, if not of greater antiquity. The round buck- 


ly flyer, taken out of the Rhone in 1665, being 20 inches 
ſer, and weighing 21 pounds, containing the ſtory of Sci- 
nuance, is thought to be co-eval with that great General. 
ers is a ſtone of a prodigious ſize, ſupported by four pil- 


X t the cauſe of its eredion is not known, But it would be 

e. ? recount the different mònuments of antiquity to be found 

, and * Particularly in the cabinets of the curious. | 
ve.) The language of France is a mixture of Latin and . 


ich, or German, _=_ lat of which was introduced by the 
but the Latin Ri prevails moſt, It has been very much 
improved 


A * 90 * A 
*" 
. 


114 F R A N G | 
improved and refined by the academy at Paris of la 
e in moſt of the courts 'in Europe. The Lr 

rench is as follows: VNeſire pere qui es au ciel, ion moni 
ton regne vienne, ta volunte foit fait fur le terre comme d 
nous a avenir chaque jour notre paint » pardonne nous uy oh 
nom pardonnes a cicux gui nour ont offences ; ne "nous" me 
tentation, mais” delivre nous du mal ; puiſque le g h 
Ia glorie N appartienne pour jamair. Amen. 
Religion.] The eſtabliſhed religion is Popery, ſince the 
have been ſuppreſſed, as they were in 1684 ; but they 
admit the inquiſition here: and the Pope's ſupremary 
until the reign of Lewis XV. but, according to the 
Unigenitus, the Pope's ſupremaey ſeems now to be ela 
every Ecclefiaſtic is obliged to ſubſcribe that conſtituia 
every parliament oppoſed this meaſure with great war 
as the clergy. At preſent their prieſts «refuſe to admin 
- crament to thoſe that do not ſubſcribe the conſtitution 
which advances the Pope's power above that of the erom 
king takes the part of the prieſt againſt. his own e 
the ſeveral parliaments of the kingdom addreſſiug his M 
the parliament of Paris was baniſhed; and it is e 
occaſion a breach between the clergy and laiety ; howeny 
mation in religion is not likely to be ſoon brought 
the French clergy in general are very tenacious of the Pa 
in matters of faith; and in ſome parts, they are ſuch ex 
that the fecular power has been moſt barbaroufly pros 
tify the mere ſuſpicions of ſome heated zealots : andthe! 
of which there are many in the Southern provinces, 
perience the effects of the power of a clergy molt warmye 
the execution of the ſevereſt penalties enounced agamibh 


Archbiſhoprics, | Biſhoprics Suffrages. 
1. Lyoxs. Autun, Langres, Macon, Chah 

2. Sins. Frois, Auxerre, Nevers. 

3. Paris, Chartres; Orleans, Meaux- 1 
Soiſſons, Leon, Chalons, Noyons 


* Amiens, Senlis, Boulogne. 
| Bayeaux, Eureux, Averanches, f. 
* Nn eux, Coutances. ; 7 & 
(Mans, Angiers, Rennes, Nauen 
6. Tovas. Zaille, Vannes, St Malo, St Brieh 
St Paul de Leon, Dole. 


7. Bou xs. Clermont, Limoges, St Fleur, Lale 
8. ALBv. * | Caſtres, Mende, Rodez, Cahors, 


Poitiers, Saintes, Angonleſine, M 


* YounDaauz.' J Agen, Condom, G 
| ; - 


r Gre | - 


"'F a a N92 '% " "wy 


** Aequis, Aire, Bazas, Bayonne, Commi 
4 Nuen. 8 Lectour, Meſcar, Oleron, T 
n f | Pamieres,  Miropoiz, Montauban, Labour, 
ay oULOUSE- 5 St Papoul, Lombes, Rieu. | 


CCareaſſione, Alet, Beziers, A Lodeve, 
ha Natbonne. Montpelier, Niſmez, Uſez, St ons, Per- 
the p * ; ' 
Fr AxLEs. N * * * M 

e | I 0 A 

e 0 a Ap Rein, Frejus, Gap, Siſteron. 

an. Valence, Die, Grenoble, Viviers, Mourienne, 


Breevson. Beclay, Baſil, Lauſanne in Switzertand. 


Eusux. Digue Glandeve, Vence, Senez, Grace, Nice 


bbiſhop of Lyons is Count and Primate of France. 
rchbiſhop of Sens is Primate of France and Germany. 
rchbiſhop of Paris is Duke and Peer of France. 
rchbiſhop of Rheims is Duke and Peer. 

tt Archbiſhop of Rouen is Primate of Normandy. 


tier and public Colleges.) Theſe literary inſtitutions have 
an irreparable loſs by the expulſion of the Jeſuits, who made 
ages, arts, and ſciences, their particular ſtudy, and taught 
over France. It is not within my plan to defcribe the dif- 
wernments and conſtitutions of every univerſity or public 
France, but they are in number 26, as follow ; Aix, An- 
„ Avignon, Beſancon, Bourdeaux, Bourges, Caen, Dol, 
Fleche, Montauban, Montpellier, Nantes, Orange, Or- 
kris, Perpignan, Poitiers, Point Mouſon, Richlieu, Rheims, 
Straſbourg, Toulouſe, and Valence. 


* 


8 


E 


nie.] There are eight academies in Paris, namely, three 
dnes ; that called the French Academy, that of inſcriptions, 
of the ſciences; one of painting and ſculpture, one of ar- 
and three for riding the great horſe and other military 


f 
„] They compute there are about 750 great convents o 


and 200 of Nuns, in France, and about 10,000 other leſſer 
: there are in all upwards" of 200, o00 Monks and Nuns in 
dom, and that the revenues of the clergy and religious 
all kinds, amount to upwards of fix millions "ſterling per 


% 


FRENCH Goto Co. I. . 4. 


Louis d'Or of France is valued at — 016 9 
The half and quarter in proportion | 
is d'Or, or Guinea — — 1100 


The half and quarter in proportion. 
* FRENCH 


| 1 CEL Wo Rv „ 
r 
a FRENCH sse Cons. 


| The old Een of France, being 60 Sols Tournois — 
The new Ecu, being 5 Livres, or 100 Sols —_ 


The half and quarter in proportion. They have al 
andre Sole, and a Liard, the th part of a Sol. 

Accounts are kept in France by Livres, Sols, and Dai 
324. and 1 Sol 12 Deniers; eee 
are reduced to half their value. 


Hiftery.] The hiſtory of no country is better a 0 
that of France, and it is particularly intereſting to til 
This kingdom, which was by the Romans called Frank 
or Gaul beyond the Alps, to diſtinguiſh it from Cilalpine 
the Italian fide of the Alps, was probably peopled as 
which it lies contiguous. Like other European nations, # 
came a defirable object to the ambitious Romans : anda 


} 


; 
. 


5 
. 


vereignty, by the name of the Sake 
The Franks and Burgundians, after eſtabliſhing their pl 
reducing the original natives to a ſtate of ſlavery, partes 


Jands among their principle leaders ; and ſucceeding kings 
neceſſary to confirm their privileges, all 


The firſt Chriſtian monarch of the Franks, {was C 
gan his reign anno 468, from which period we ind Wen 
engaged in domeſtic broils or in foreign wars- The fri 
their kings, prior to — tound a cruel ny 4 


the Goths and Vandals upon their 
Charlemagne, king of France, became . of G 
and part of Italy, and was 'crowned king of the Wan 
Pope ; be divided his empire by will among his ſons, whe 


contemporary 
1 though be was brave 
the Swiſa, who till then 
unſortunate warrior. He was a 


again 
ry VIII. of England. In a capital expedition he undertook 
7, he was he ane as in bens SF wats and obliged 
to diſhonqurable terms, which he never meant to perform, 


Francis I. was ſucceeded by his fon II. who upon 
de was an excellent and fortunate Prince. continued the 
the Emperor of Germany to advantage for his own 
ns; and was ſo well ſerved by Duke of Guiſe, that tho? 
ve battle of St Quintin, againſt the Spaniards and the En- 
' fetook Calais the latter, who never ſince had avy 
n Fraqpe. He married his ſon, the Dauphin, to Mary 
Scots, in hopes of uniting that kingdom to his crown ; but 
Icdewe he, or rather his country, was unfortunate, as may 
a the biſtory of Scotland. He was killed in the year 1559, 
abappy tik ing- match, by the Count of Montgomery. _ 
% cceeded by his ſon, Francis IL a weak, fickly, inactive 
prince 


. * ä F n N * * | BY b um 
ö 2? e 
prince, whoſe power was entirely engroſſed by a prince g 

of Guiſe, uncle to his wife, the beautiful queen of S 


. —_— of power encouraged the Bourbon, the Moy 
and other great families, to form a ſtrong oppoſition ag 
verament. Anthony, king of Navarre, was at. the had 
Bourbon family ; but the queen - mother, the famous Cat e\ 
Medicis, being obliged to take part with the Guiles, thee 4 
who had adopted the cauſe of Hugonotiſm, was broken alt 
when the ſudden death of Francis happened, in the yearid | 
This event took place while the prince of Conde, brats -q 
N Navarre, was under ſentence of death, for a co * 
gainſt the court, but the queen- mother ſaved him, tu 
mtereſt of the Guiſes;' ſo that the ſole direction of 
her hands, during the. minority of her ſecond fon, © 
Her regency was a continued ſeries of diſſimulation, tready 
murder. The duke of Guiſe, who was the ſcourge ofth 
ſlants, was treacherouſly murdered by one Poltrat,.at th 
Orleans; and the murderer was thought to have been 
the famous Coligni, admiral of France, who was, then at 
of the . Proteſtant party. Three civil wars fucceede& al : 
At laſt the court pretended to grant the Hugonts 4 
geous peace, and a match was concluded between king tt 
young king of Navarre, and a Proteſtant, and the Fred 
| + The heads of the Proteſtants were invited weak F 
nuptials at Paris, with the infernal view of butchering tle 
poſſible, in one night. This project proved but too ſucces 
at was not e tely executed, on St Bartholbmews &y 
The king himſelf aſſiſted in the maſſacre, in which the ad 
. and it is faid that about 30,000 Proteſtants were murdereds 
and in other parts of France; and this brought on 4 lo 
war. Though a freſh peace was concluded in 137% Wl 
teſtants, yet a fifth civil war broke out the next year, 
bloody Charles IX, died without heirs. 1085 
His third brother, the Duke of Anjou, had, ſome tum 
been choſen king of Poland; and hearing of his brothen 
he, with ſome difficulty, eſcaped to France, where de 
eſſion of that crown by the name of Henry III. 
Religion at that time ſupplied to the reformed, nobility # 
the feudal powers they had loſt, The heads of the Proteus ” 
raiſe armies of Hugonots. The governors of provinces 
them as if they had t been independent of the crown 5 and W 
were ſo equally balanced, that the name of the king aun 
the ſcale. A holy league was formed for the defence W ec 
lic religion, at the head of which was the Duke of GW 
Proteſtants, under the prince of Conde, and the Duke © 01 
the king's brother, called in the German princes to theirs 
and a fixth civil war broke out in 1577, in which the Wop! 
took the part of the league, in revenge of the Duke of A 
claring himſelf lord of the Netherlends. This civil war? 
within the year, by another ſham peace. The kings FEY 
| acceſſion to the throne, had plunged himſelf into a courk 
mous debaughery and religious extravagance. He wu 


"9 


l 


dd o 
. 


j * W 
r r 
„ his profligate favourites, but he poſſeſſed natural good 
4 dee Bee that the proſeriptions of the proteſtants, 
ing aſide from the ſucceſſion the king of Navarre, on ac- 
his religion, which was aimed at by the holy league, was 
* to place the duke of Guiſe, the idol of the Roman ca- 
on the throne, to which that duke had ſome diſtant preten- 
Grenth civil war broke out in the year 1579, and another 
both of them to the difadvantage of the proteſtants, thro? 
45 of the duke of Guiſe. The king thought him now ſo 
is, that after inviting them in a friendly manner to court, 
and his brother, the cardinal, were, by his majeſty's orders, 
a manner, under his eye, baſely aſſaſſinated. "The leaguers, 
„ declared that Henry had forfeited the crown, and was 
to religion. This obliged him to throw himſelf into the 
the Proteſtants ; but while he was beſieging Paris, where 
ers bad their greateſt force, he was, in his turn, aſſaſſinated 
lement, a young enthuſiaſtic monk, in 1589. In Henry 
d the line of Valois. „ | 
aders of hiſtory are well acquainted with the difficulties, on 
of his religion, which Henry IV. king of Navarre , head 
uſe of Bourbon, and the next heir by the Salic law, had to 
r before he mounted the throne. The leaguers were head - 
duke of Main, brother to the late duke of Guiſe; and 
from his cell the decrepit cardinal of Bourbon, uncle to Go 
of Navarre, and a Roman catholic, whom they proclaimed "1 
France, Being ſtrongly ſupported by the power of Spain 
he, all the glorious actions performed by Henry, his courage 
znanimity, Lemed only to make him more illuſtriouſiy unfor- 
for he and his little court were ſometimes without common 
s. He was, however, perſonally beloved ; and no objec- 
azainſt him but that of his religion. The leaguers, on the 
ad, ſplit among themſelves ; and the French nation, in ge- 
ing jealous of the Spaniards, who availed themſelves of the 
fractions, Henry, after experiencing a variety of and 
une, came ſecretly to à reſolution of declarigg himſelf a 
atholic, This was a meaſure of neceſlity, as the king of 
d offered his daughter Tfabella Clara Eugenia to be queen 
t and would have married her to the young duke of Guile. 
j, Henry went publicly to maſs, as a mark of his conver- 
bis complaiſance wrought wonders in his favour ; and ha- 
th great difficulty, obtained abſolution from the Pope, all 
Wmitted to his authority, and he had only the crown of 
contend with, which he did for ſeveral years with various 
In 1598, he publiſhed the famous edit of Nantes, which 
o the Proteſtants the free exerciſe of their religion; and the 
= treaty of Vervins was concluded with Spain. ' Henry 
td the duke of Savoy, who had taken advantage of the 
les in his kingdom; and applied himſelf, with wonderful 
£4 attention 


l kingdom lying u N 

m xing upon the Pyrenean mountalns, of which Henry's prede- 
= unjuſtly diſpoſſeſſed of the greateſt part, ot upper Navarre, by Fer- 
Sol Spain, about the year 15 124 


attention and ſucceſs, (afliſted in all his undertakinh 


of the houſe of Auſtria; for which purpoſe it is 


it is certain, that while he was making preparation 


next to an enthuſiaſt for popery, ſupported the proven 


who, in 1643, left his ſon, afterwards the famous Lewis 


_ 


- 
9 — 


is. 
| , w 2 . * 4 * 
120 F R AN C Ea. 


a 
the great Sully) to cultivate the happineſs of his oY | 
raging manufactures, particularly that of filk, thewe 
France feels at this day. Having re-eſtabliſhed the 


in a great meaſure, ſecured the happineſs of his pea 


connections with the neighbouring powers for redus 


at ſchemes, and collected a formidable army; 
intention does not clearly appear) that he deſigu 
Chriſtendom into a great republic, of which Franc 
head, to drive the Turks out of Europe; while oth 
preparations to more ignoble motives, that of a cr 
a favourite princeſs,” whoſe huſband had carried her_ 
into the Auſtrian dominions. Whatever may be inwnYy 


tion of his queen, Mary of Medicis, and was reg 
his grand expedition, he was aſſaſſinated in his coal 
of Paris, by one Ravilliac, like Clement, another yas 
in 1610. ＋ 6 NT”. | __ 
Lewis XIII. ſon to Henry IV. deſervedly nag 
but nine years of age at the time of his father's gen by 
up, he diſcarded his mother and her favourites, ana_ 


- miniſter the famous cardinal Richelieu, who put 


folute and bloody meaſures, to the remaining libe_ 
and to the eſtabliſhment of the Proteſtants the 
them Rochelle, though Charles I. of England; was 
the French king's filter, endeavoured by his fleet ang_ 
vent it. This put an end to the civil wars on a 
France. Hiſtorians ſay, that in theſe wars above n_ 
loſt their lives; that 150,000,000 livres were ſpent__ 
on; and that nine cities, 400 villages, 2000 chu 
ſeries, and 10,000 houſes, were burnt, or other 
ring their continuance. Wn <7 

ichelieu, by a maſterly train of politics, thou 


many, and Guſtavus Adolphus againſt the house 
after quelling all the rebellions and conſpiracies whienans 
ed againſt him in France, he died ſome months betan_ 
inherit his kingdom. — 
During that prince's nonage, the kingdom was torn 
der the adminiſtration of his mother, Anne of A 
tions of the great, and the diviſions between the conn 
ment, for the moſt trifling cauſes, and upon the mol 
ciples. The prince of Conde was ſometimes a pA 
eourtier, and ſometimes a rebel. He was oppoſed ann 
Turenne, who from a Proteſtant had turned Papiſi 
France was involved at once in civil and dome 
queen mother having made choice of Mazarine for ben 
he found means to turn the arms, even of Cromwell a 
ards, and to divide the domeſtic enemies of the coun ſo 
among themſelves, that when Lewis aſſumed «the M 


: « 


= 
_ 
n "A g 


A. -. 
„ . Lp n - 
« * 7 4 
F . 8 * = 
7 g 
* * = 


9 


9 
9 * 
34 | 
„„ 
- _ * 
: 
Z 
: 
+ 


- 


"an 


7 KC * 
©. "12S 
. 


* 
7 

311 

— 

* 


1 4 N 4 
11 rn. 4 * 
5 | - * . + . 

b 


* 


WITZERLAND 


* 


. 8 I 1 * N 
| — . \ ** f ' p * < 4 +» * 8 
Eg a = d 1 \ A = 7 " 4 [ : | 7 
Winne WY * l * „ 2 
1 1 N * 1 1 — . 
. - * . 2 \, 1 , 4 * 4 4 . > by | \ 7 
Ne : N 75 1 by : | 


. 
1 
N. 2 VI 3 l fe ww - " if — N * * — £ 
lee 3 _ a ( 4 | | 
. =") * b N | 
5 \ FS Y. 4 1 13 9 T ts * 5 4 
. K "#4 fo ' 
* 5 Pe * y } 
i . N be * n C : „ 1 v - -, 
a 1 17 » 4 7 * * 1 i 
* N Ny; b I p ' # « & - , - " 
Y : 3 2 14 * 
1 : - a4” « o 4 4 
4 4 lb | 
- - 0 


— 4 


h 
. 


» 
F . - 
i % = 4 * \ * * 
— F Y 1 > a 
o F — 


ry * 


4 * a 


1 
Nong 
"» 


. 9 £ 
. » "= 9 _ 2 \ 
” «ez tht ., ® 2. \ - 2. = 1 

„ AH 516 
Mobo \F % * N 
- 7 N 1 is . 2 y 6 * 

9 | " . | E= „ „% An 5 
2 IS 5. WH IS. L 4 F 


* e 4 +24 
SIN YL. 8 K 


: : %s ; ii M 22 4 * * * 14 A * 1 | 
* . n — e . 
D i ' * 1 . 4 7 * N 
. 3 * PB * f "4 Ks > ov f 5 5 g w- * 
9 | DG enen | Cu ee. 
9329 Re eee A wt 
A» 6 * * "© { . * 0 
| : '"” > 8 wet +4 . N . . Þ cial , n 4 
„ SARDIN ; 
. | 
| | | « * x7. N N * 1 . x 
N N 5 4 . * 24 hy : 
| ; a 4} d * 
* . * * 5: | 
9 * : 0 * | 
# 
: 
© * % k 4 3 4 4 . 
\ , 4X" Au. * &. E Ac. : v1 
Werne _ 
4 | KA. ILY 1 Ca Totar # 
N = |: | / 
k * * YL : 8 o 


* 


WWW 
un hands, he found himſelf the moſt abſolute monarch 
ſat upon the throne of France. He had the good for- 
death of Mazarine, to put the domeſtic adminlſtration 
:nto the hands of Colbert, whom I have already more 


ntioned, and who formed new ſyſtems for the glory, 
nd manufactures of France, all which he to a 


ight. | 
the hiſtory of this reign, would be to write that of all 
morance and ambition were the only enemies of Lewis: 
former, he was blind to every patriotic duty of a king, 
d the intereſts of his ſubjects only that they might the 
x the purpoſes of his greatneſs: the latter, he em- 
If with all his neighbours, and wantonly rendered Ger- 
al ſcene of devaſtation, I have often mentioned his im- 
ation of the edict of Nantes, which obliged the French 
take ſhelter in England, Holland, and different parts 
, where they eſtablithed the filk manufactories, to the 
ice of their own country. He was ſo blinded by flattery, 
rated to himſelf the divine honours paid to the Pagan 
Rome. He made and broke treaties for his convenien- 
aft raiſed againſt himſelf a confederacy of almoſt all the 
of Europe, at the head of which was king William ILL. 
He was ſo well ſerved, that he made head for ſome 
this alliance; but having provoked the Engliſh by his 
delities, their arms, under the duke of Marlborough, 
the Auſtrians, under prince Eugene, rendered the lat- 
bis life as miſerable as the beginning of it was ſplendid. 
pm the year 1702 to 1711, was one continued ſeries of 
alamities ; and he had the mortification of ſeeing thoſe 
from him, which, in the former part of his reign, were 
ie expence of many thouſand. lives. Juſt as he was re- 
$ he was, to the deſperate reſolution of collecting his 
dying at their head, he was ſaved by the Engliſh with- 
u their allies, and concluding the peace of Utrecht, in 
rived his deliverance but two years, for he died on the 
mber, 1715, and was ſucceeded by his great grandſon, 
ho died May gth 1774, and was ſucceeded by Lewis 
ent king. 


I 7 <A 1B . 


HIS country lyes on che Southern fide of Europe. 


Is bounded on the North by the Alps and Switzerland, 
from Germany. . 
"uth by the Mediterranean ſea. © | 


t by the Gulph OR and part of Germany. 


On 


K n ey a 
* * 

o 

l 

* 2 
\ 
_ 
s 


. tr A BIG 


On the Weſt by the. Mediterranean and the river Ve 
vide Italy from Ten. | 


Extent.] It extends from BY latitude + 38 A 
N. reckoned by ſome at about 400 miles. 
And from the longitude of 7 degrees to 19 degrees 
ally eſtimated at about 600 miles. 
But the poſition of Italy lying about 8. E. by L. 
W. its mean length is about 700 miles, and the mean i 
180 miles. 
The iſland of Sicily of about 1 50 miles — 11 
breadth of about 60 miles on a mean, is to be added 
Italy is uſually conſidered under three great diva 
the upper, .or Northern part, cotaprehending Lombarky 
dle, and the Lower, or Southern part: 
In the Jollowing table the * are taken from thed 


% - 


Div. Name. | Title. 1 jo towns. ls Iu; 
— - ud 
| Savoy Duckedom N NW 
| Piedmont: Principality] N W nd 
|= | Montſerrat |Dutchy NW (e uſt 
S | Milaneſe Dutchy NNW 4 
E < Parmeſan |Dutchy NNW of 
> | Modeneſe Dutchy N by W 
Mantua Dutchy N by W [Mantua 
| © | Venice Republic 1 Gem ful 
Genoa - Republic | NW Geno Ne 
.» C Tuſcany Dukedom NW Florence % ela 
3 Popedom Middle Rome 4 are 
S JLucca Republic NNW Lucca al 
St Marino Republic N 2 —— 30 leſa 
3 C Naples and ISW by WINap f mor 
'S } Sicily Kingdom 9 Palermo - 
0 Z Sardinia Kingdom 8 nt 
| G 2 8 [Ba neſe 
=. ( Malta 8 — 


The King of SARDINIA poſſeſſes Save; Prepnonh 
RAT, the IsLA NN of SakDinia, and part of the M u 


The Subdiviſions in theſe territories are, i 
yis 


Subdiviſion. © Titles. 4 Chief * 
f Savo O 5 4 hamberr Py 
> 68M | — Annacy _ of P/ 
3 J Chablais | County | Tonor, or 
= 7] Tarantaiſe | | Monſtriers 
® | Maurienne Valley St John de N tia 
| Foſligny EE Bonneville a 


* 


——p 


1. 1 .. We | 123 
| Chief towns. _ 


bbdiviſion Titles. 
{erat Duchy Caſal, Alby, Aqui. 
LY Tortona 1 

_ Alexandrina 
umelin | 1 
plia Territory Oneglia 
mont Proper i Turin, Pignerol, Carignan. 
reeil Lordſhip Verceil. ö | 
ran Principality | Maſſeran. 

Marqu. Ivrea, 

County Aſti 

Marqu, | Suſao. 
0220 Marqu. Saluzzo, Coni. 
udois Vallies Pragelas, or Cluſon. 
e Territory ice 
nde County | Tende 
uſte | County Aouſte 


fAUSTRIA poſſeſſes the MirAxESsE, the ManTuan 
and Tuscaux. 


fubdiviſions and chief towns in theſe territories are, 


neſe | Proper | Milan 
eſan Pavia 
areſe Navara 
aſco Como 
leſan Lodi 
moneſe | Cremona 
ntina Florence 
neſe Sienna 
| Piſa, Leghorn, Piombino. 
Proper 


utua 


| Mantua. 


dy is contained the republic of Lucca, and the principa- 
la Carara, ſubje& to its own prince; alſo the coaſt del 
which the capital is Orbitello, ſubject to the king of Naples. 


of PARMA (of the houſe of Bovs Box 
the Duchies of 


Parma 
Chief towns Hate 
Q 2 


) is ſovereign of 


tia 
e Guaſtala, Caſtiglione, Luzzara. 


The 


public of Lucca on the South; the Patriarchate on the 


from Germany ; the MaxnTuan and PaTRIARCHATE on 


* Corty, Zant, La Praga. - 


Aon NY 1 r 4 1 * 


The GENOESE territories rut along the ſea-coal, 
miles in lengths. but do not exceed 20 miles in breadth; ; 
the two little territories of Monaco and Outer; te 
ject to its own Prince, and the latter to the King of 8 


The ſubdiviſions of GENOA, with the chief "iP: 
Subdiviſions, Chief towns. Subdiviſions, * 


Genoa, Proper Genoa St Remo, Territory 
Savona, Territory | Savona || Ventimiglia, Ter. 
Vado, Territor: Vado || Monaco, Principality 
Noli, Territory | Noli Rapallo, Tena 
Final, Territory Final Lavigna 
Albenga, Territory | Albenga Spezia 

— Hſe | Oneglia 


The Duchy of MODENA hes Mawes on the North 
Genoa on the Weſt, It is ſubject to its own Duke, and g 


Duchies. Chief towns. „ 
Modena Modena 

Mirandola we the if Mirandola | 
Khegio Rhegio, Dork, —_ 


The republic of VENICE has the Kate on the North, 


the GuLyn of Vewice on the Eaſt, and the Mitanzss on 
Subdiviſions, Chief towns, BSubdijviſions, 


Venice Venice - I Rovigno 

Paduan Padua Trevegiano K 
Veroneſe Verona Belluneſe Va 
Breſciano | Breſcia Friuil Act Va 
Cremaſco + Crema Udineſe 1 
Bergamaſco ' | Bergamo Iſtria, part. 

Vincentino Vincenza ] 


Alſo theſe Iſlands in and near the Gulph of Venice, Ct 
Vegia, Arbe, Pago, Longa, Brazza, Leſſina, Curzola, G. 


And theſe towns on the Dalmatian cad; to the Eaſt of 
atic, Zara, Nona, Spalatto, Sebinico, and Segnay 1 in Mc 
the ſame ſide of the Adriatic. 


The Patriarchate, or PRA of the POPE, have he 
VExice on the North; thoſe of NarLes and the Mpvirit 
on the South; the Aprxiartic Sea on the Eaſt ; and Tv 
the Mopewess on the welt. f 
Subdiviſions, Chief towns. Subdiviſiona. Car 


8 Rome 1 | 
E | Tivoli Ancona, Marqu. 
Freſcatti Ws 
Oltia Urbins, Dany 

Albano | 


Compani 
of Rom 


FRAY AA 


ſiterbo Romania 
ita 
Bracciano Bologneſe 
Caſtro 
Drvietto Ferrareſe | 
Aquapen dente Republic of St Ma- 
$poletto rino 
Narni 
Terni 
Perugia ry : 
Jominions of the KING of the TWO SICILIES lye in the 


id 8. E. parts of ITaLy, having the Por bon to the North; 
MTERRANEAN 8A on the South and Weſt, and the Adriatic 


ridons Chief towns. Zubdiviſions. Ch. towns, 


Naples, Capua, Geta Ult. Calabria Rhegio 
rincip. | Bene vento Ult. Abrazzo Aquilla 
frincip. | Salerno Citra Abruzzo Þ| Chierti 

Bojano |, Capitinate, or A- | Manfre- 
t Cerenza pula donia 

bria | Coſenza Barri | Barri | 
| Otranto 

Otranto. Brundiſi 

Tarenta. 


Fal de Mazara Palermo 
Val de Demona Meſſina 
Vald Noto Catania, Syracuſe, Noto. 


Lipari Iſlands, North of Sicily, 
Lipari, Strombule, Rotte, Panaria, Elicuſa. 
Iſlands on the Weſt coaſt of Italy, 


ckia, Ponza, Giglio, Elba, Capraria, Gorgona ; and the 
iſland of Pianoſa, ſubje& to Tuſcany. 


Iſland of Corſica, ſubject to the French. 
Chief towns Baſtia and Bonifacio, 
df Malta, ſubject to the knights. Chief town, Valetta. 


in.) 1. The Alps on the North and Weſt. 2. The Appe- 
uch run the whole length of Italy, from the N. W. to the 
+ Veſuvius, a remarkable volcano near Naples. 


10 . Maggior. 2. Lugano. 3. Como. 4. Iſco. 5. Garda 
aul. 6, Perugia, or Thraſimene. 7. Bracciano. 8. Terni. 

% in the middle. 
: Rivers. ] 


* p — 
= * 
126 % I rT »A 1 1. Y. 
4 0 — & 3 l 4 


Fg 


through Tuſcany, paſſing by Florence, and falls into the 


. through Savoy into the Rhone. 


A Italy are, the gulph of Venice, or the Adriaticiſea; 


Franca, Oneglia, Final, Savona, Vado, Spezia, Lucca 


Monte Sancto, and Polo in Sardinia. 


q 
. 


Niem. J 1. The Po, which riſes in Piedmont, and, rus 
paſſes by Turin and Chivas, then turning Ealt runs thr 
ſerrat, the Milaneſe, and the territories of Venice, fally 
Adriatic, or gulph of Venice, by ſeveral channels, and; 
its courſe the two Doria's, the Stura, Seſſia, Teflino, Ol 
Oglio, Mincio, on the North; and the Tanaro, 'Trehja, 
chia and Parma on the South-... |, A | 
2. The Var, which riſes in the Alps, and, running 
into the Mediterranean below Nice or Niza. 
3. The Adige, which riſes in Tirol, and runs South . 
of Trent, and, turning Eaſt to Verona, falls into the Gulph 
4. The Tagliamenta, 5. The Piava. And, 6, The th 
which, riſing in the Alps, run 8. E. through the terrin 
nice, and fall into the gulph of Venice. 
7. The Aruo, which riſes in the Appenine mountains 


nean below Piſa. 288 
8. The Rubicon, the Southern boundary of the anciex 
Gaul, which riſes in the Appenine, and running E, fal 
Gulph of Venice, near Rimini. a 
9. The Tiber, which riſes in the Appenine, and run 
Rome; falling into the Mediterranean ſea at Oftia, re 
courſe the Chiana, Terni, and Tiverone. 
10. The Volturno, Which, riſing in the Appenine, rus 
the North part of the kingdom of Naples, and falls into 
terranean below Capua. 11, The Iſere riſes in the'Alps 


Seas, Gulphs, or Bays, Capes, Promontories, and Streight] 
Naplcs, Tuſcany, and Genoa. The bays or harbours of 


horn, Piombino, Civita Vecchia, Gaieta, Naples, Salem 
tro, Rhegio, Quilace, Tarento, Manfredonia, Raveat 
Trieſte, Faria, and Fiume; Cape Spartavento del Alicy 
and Ancona, and the Streight of Meſſina, between Italy 

In the Italian lands.) The gulphs or bays gf Fire 
Talada, Porto Novo, Cape Corſo, Bonifacio, and Ferro z © 
and the Streights of Bonifacio, Corſica, and Sardima. | 

The bays of Cagliari and Oriſtagni; Cape de Sara 


The gulphs of Meſſina, Melazzo, Palermo, Mazars 
and Catania; Cape Faro, Melazzo, Orlando, Gall 
Paſſaro, and Aleſſio in Sicily; ang 

The bays of Porto Feraio, and Porto Longone, in the Lane 


Air.] The air of Italy is very different, . " = 
ſituations of. the ſeveral countries it is compoſed of: U 

parts, which lie upon the Alps, are cold, and 
in Winter: the hills of the Appenine alſo, which m 
whole length of Italy, are cold enough. The cour 
North of the Apptnine are temperate ; thoſe; on the 0 


re 127 - 
+ Campania of Rome is unhealthful, and ſo is the Fer- 
oned by bogs and ſtagnant waters. In other parts the 
rally pure and dry; aud tho' Naples might be thought 
from its Southern ſituation, yet being almoſt furronnded 
+ is continually refreſhed by breezes from thence, 


luce, Manuſacturec, and Traffic. ] The ſoil affords'a g 
wines, and the beſt oil in Europe; their tender plants, 
ranges, lemons, Cc. on the North ſide of the Appenine, 
-4 in Winter; but on the South ſide they have no need of 
is not ſuch plenty of corn as in ſome other countries, but 
enough for the preſent inhabitants, who are not ſo nume - 
\ the time of the Romans, when the ſeat of the empire was 
This country produces excellent filk in abundance, and 
bufaftures of gold and filver ſtuffs, brocades and velvets, 
bed the beſt in Europe, which the Britiſh merchants bring 
om thoſe noted ports of Genoa, Leghorn, and Venice: 
places of Italy abound in mineral ſprings, ſome hot, ſome 
ad many of ſulphureous, chalybeat, and medicinal quali 
ny of its mountains abound in mines that produce great 
5 of emeralds, jaſper, agate, porphyry, lapis lazuli, and 
uable ſtones. Iron and copper mines are found in a few 
and a mill for forging and fabricating theſe metals is erec- 
Tivoli, in Naples. Sardinia is ſaid to contain mines of 
er, lead, iron, ſulphur, and allum, though they are now 
and curious cryſtals and corals are found on the coaſt of 
Beautiful marble of all kinds is one of the chief productions 


s little difference between the animal productions of Italy, 


W or ſea, and thoſe of France and Germany already 


ants, Manners, Cuſtoms, &c.] Authors are greatly divided 
id of Italian population.. This may be owing, in a great 
to the partiality which every Italian has ſor the honour of 
province, The number of the king of Sardinia's ſubjects 
8 about 2,300,000, The city. of Milan itſelf, by the beſt 
contains 300,000, and the duchy is proportionably popu- 
$ to the other provinces of Italy, geographers and travel- 
e pad very little attention to the numbers of natives that 
de country, and inform us by conjecture only of thoſe who 
ie great cities. Some doubts have ariſen whether Italy is 
us now agit was in the time of Pliny, when it contained 
00 of inhabitants. Probably the preſent inhabitants exceed 
Wer, The Campagna di Roma, and ſome other of the moſt 
parts of Italy, are at preſent in a manner deſolate ; but we 
nder that the modern Italians are in a great meaſure free 
unremitting wars, not to mention the tranſmigration of 
wich formerly, even down to the 16th century, depopu- 
T country, Add to this, that the princes and ſtates of 
encourage agriculture' and manufactures of all kinds, 
"wtcdly promotes population; ſo that it may not ——__ 


100 nee 
de extra t, if we aſſign to Italy 20,000,000 of i 
| ſame — 9 — greatly 2 that number. The Tk 
nerally well proportioned, and have ſuch meaning in & 
that they have greatly aſſiſted the ideas of their pains 
women are well ſhaped, and very atnorous. The ms 
eſpecially of the better ſort, are of very little value inal 
wife has her gallant or ciciſbeo, with whem ſhe keeps com 
ſometimes cobabits with very little ceremony, and nv d 
ther ide. This practice is chiefly remarkable at Venice 
pare to the modes of life, the belt quality of a modern h 
iety, and contentment under the public government, We 
taciturnity they diſcover but little refſection. They areal 
dictive than brave, and more ſuperſtitious than devout, 
dling ranks are attached to their native cuſtoms, and kn 
no . improvement. Their fondneſs for greens, 
vegetables of all kinds, contributes to their contentment 
ion; and an Italian gentleman or 'peaſant can be lum 
very ſmall expence. Though perhaps all Italy does not « 
deſcendents of the ancient Romans, yet the preſent inhabiy 
of themſelves as ſucceſſors to the conquerors of the world 
upon the reſt of mankind with contempt. *_. 
_ The dreſs of the Italians is little different from that ofth 
bouring countries, and they affect a medium between th 
volatility and the ſolemnity of the Spaniards, The Neal 
commonly dreſt in black, in compliment to the Spaniards 
not be denied that the Italians excel in the ing arts; th 
are as yet but deſpicable proficients in the ſciences, I 
and enjoy vocal muſic at a very dear rate, by ea, 
males when young, to which their mercenary parents a 
remorſe. 3 * 
The Italians, the Venetians eſpecially, have very Hale 
tion of the impropriety of many cuſtoms that are c, 
minal in other countries. Parents, rather than their a 
throw themſelves away by unſuitable marriage, or contra 
by promiſcuous amours, hire miſtreſſes for them for am 
year, or ſome determined time; and concubinage, in mw 
of Italy, is an avowed licenſed trade. The Italran coun 
bona robas, as they are called, make a kind of profeitions 
cities, Maſquerading and gaming, horſe-races without n8 
converſations or aſſemblies, are the chief diverſions of i 
excepting religious exhibitions, in which they are pomp 
all other nations. | 
A modern writer, deſcribing his journey thro BY 
a very unfavourable picture of the Italians and wa 
A. « Give what ſcope you pleaſe to your fancy, 
wHl never imagine half the diſagreeableneſs that Italian det 
cooks, and Italian naſtineſs, offer to an Engliſhman. 
Milan, Venice, Rome, and perhaps two or three others 
meet with good accommodations; but no words n 
wenchedacs of the other inns. No other beds than the 
with a mattreſs of ſtraw, and next to that a dirty 
with water, and conſequently damp ; for a coverings I 


| "Tr As r ae 155 
V coarſe as the firſt, like one of our kitchen jack-towels, 
The bedſtead conſiſts of ſour wooden forms ' 
{-20- Engliſh and muſt lye in this manner; 
carry an upholſtererꝰs ſhop with them. There are, by 
) ſuch things as curtains ; and in all their inns, the walls 
ud the floor has never once been waſhed ſince it was firſt 
of the: moſt indelicate euſtoms here is, that men, and 
, wake the ladies beds, and would do every office of a 
if ſuffered. They never ſcour. their pewter ; their 
of the ſame colour. In theſe: inns they make you pay 
d ſend up ten times as much as you can eat. The ſoup; 
with pieces of liver — in it 3 a plate full of brains; 
ſhape of fritters ; 2 diſh of livers and gizzards; a couple 
ways killed after your arrival) boiled to rags, without 
eat kind of ſauce or herbage ; another fowl, juſt killed, 
they call it; then two more fowls, or a turkey roaſted to 
| over Italy, on the roads, the | chickens. and fowls are ſo 
lay you may divide the breaſt into as many filaments as 
halfpenny-worth of thread. Now and then we get a little 
atton or veal, and generally ſpeaking, it is the only eat · 
| that falls in our way. The bread all the way is exceed» 
d the butter ſo rancid, that it cannot be touched, or even 
lin the reach of our ſmell. But what is a ter evil to 
un any of the above recited, are the jnſinite number of 
ps, fleas, and lice, which infeſt us by day and night. - 
lan painters, ſculptors, architects, and muſicians, are 
not only in their numbers, but their excellencies. The 
learning, after the ſack of Conſtantinople by the Turks, 
likewiſe, and gave mankind a reliſh for truth and heau · 
1 and colouring. Raphael, from his own ideas, aſſiſted 
tients, ſtruck out a new creation with his pencil, and ſtill 
he head of the painting art. Michael Angelo Buonaroti, 
is own perſon, painting, ſculpture, and architedture. The 
of Titian has perhaps never yet been equalled. HBramante, 
d many other Italians, carried ſculpture and architecture 
ang height, Julio, Romano, Correggio, Caraccio, Ve- 
| others, are, as painters, unequalled in their ſeveral 
The ſam2 may be ſaid of Correlli, and other Italians, in 
— Italy cannot juſtly boaſt of any paramount ge- 
arts. m3 
bs ard Curigſſtier.] A library might be filled by deſerip- 
Rlineations of all chat is rare and curious in the arts; nor 


nds of this work admit of mentioning even their general 


A 


Paitheatres claim the firſt rank, as à ſpecies of the moſt 
mificence ; that which was erected by Veſpaſian, and 
Domitian, called the Coloſeo, now ſtands at Rome. Ihe 
af Verona, erected by the conſul Flaminius, is thought 
al entire of any in Italy. Ihe ruins of other theatres 
Ratres are viſible in other places. The triamphal arehes 
Septimus Severus, and Conſtantine the Great, are 
5 hongh decayed. Fm ruins of the baths, * 


* 1 a * 


10 — 7-7. 
* mins particularly that of the Pantheon e 
ve can form of the Roman grandeur. The pln 
Antonine, the former 175 feet high, and the laters 
ſtructive ſculptures are ill remaining. A traveller 1 
vaſtations of the Northern barbarians, when de ſeesthy 
column erected by Duillius, in commemoration” af the 
| the Romans gained over the Carthaginiang, 
the wolf giving ſuck to Romulus and Remus, with vill 
the ſtroke of r LY by Cicero 3 the very on 
containing ws of the twelve tables ; andath 
identical antiquities ſome bf them tranſmitted uohurttod 
: . not to mention medals and the infinite o 
E ed ſtones which abound in the cabinets of the a 
Mock 8, all over Italy, are furniſhed with bultyand & 
ted in * times of the republic and the higher empire. 
Flaminian, and Emilian roads, the firſt 200 mie thek 
and the third 50 miles in length, are in many ay = 
The ſubterraneous conſtructions of Italy are asf 
above ground, witneſs the cloacz and catacombs, or rep 
dead bodies, in the neighbourhood of Rome and Naples 
above 20 years ſince a painter's apprentice diſcovered the 
ty of Pæſtum or Poſidonia, in the kingdom of Naples, W 
for-ſo indifferent are the country people of Italyaboutoby 
tiquity, that it was a new diſcovery to the learned. "Anim 
mine of curioſities are daily dug out of the rains of Here 
city lying between Naples and Veſuvius, and ſunk in an 
2700 years ago. 
With regard to modern curioſities, this are as bemide 
remains of antiquity. Rome itſelf contains 300 clurcha 
all thatis rare in architecture, painting, and ſculpture 
and town of Italy contains a proportionable number, 
of gt Peter, at Rome, is the moſt aſtoniſhing bold; and 
bric, that ever perhaps exiſted ; and when examined by 
art, it may be termed faultleſs. The houſe and my 
is rich beyond imagination, ann the ri 
that compoſes its hiſtory, 


The natural curioſities of Italy, though rewar | atimo! 
numerous as its artificial. Mount Veſuvius, near Nag unde 
Etna, in Sicily, are remarkable for remitting fire „ TR | 
Mount Etna is 60 miles in circumference, and at the ore! 


baſon of ſulphur fix miles round; from whence ſome 
vers of melted. minerals that run down into the fea- 
rally an earthquake before any great eruption,” Inf 
town of Catania was overturned, and 18,000 people pe 
tween the lakes Agnano and Puzzeli'there is a valleſ' 
ra, ' becauſe vaſt quantities of ſulphur are continually 
the cliffs by ſubterranean fires. The grotto del Cane" 
for its poiſonous ſeams, and is ſo called from their kl 
enter it, if forced to remain there. The poiſon f 
an inſect or ſpider, ſaid to be removed only by mulic 
as, by ſome, perſons of very e —_ this s 


. * 
\ 


„ & 


| 1 F 131 
gig f tru. Soorpions,' ripers, and ſeepents; are com 
J The Italian is the old Latin, corrupted by the Goths 

- Northern nations, Which demoliſhed the Roman empire. 
15 prayer in this runs thus: Padro nftro che ſei 
;ficato H tus nome ii tus ; la tua volitnta 


; eremiticii neftri debiti, ff come not anchord remittiamo a noftri 


enininderct in tentatione, ma liberaci dal maligno ; perchioche 
la potenza, e la gloria in ſempiterns, Amen, ' 


] The religion of the Italians is Koman-catholic. The 
| here is little more than a ſound ; and perſons of all reli- 
unmoleſted in Italy, provided no groſs inſult is offered to 
hip. Tn the introduction, we have given an account of 
ad eſtabliſhment of Popery in Italy, from whence it ſpread 
wope; likewiſe of the cauſes and ſymptoms of its decline. 
faſtical government of the Papacy has employed many vo- 
deſcribing it. The Cardinals, who are next in dignity to 
fs, are ſeventy, but that number is ſeldom or never com- 
are appointed by the: Pope, who takes care to have a 


e, as it was once to Avignon in France, the then Pope be- 
achman. In promotin — prelates to the cardinal- 
Pope regulates himſelf according to the nomination of the 
ho profeſs that religion. His chief miniſter is the Cardi- 

y his nephew, or near relation, who improves 
if the Pope's reign by amaſſing what he can. When met 
lory, the Cardinals pretend to controul the Pope, in mat- 
piritual and temporal, and have been ſometimes known to 
The reign of a Pope is ſeldom of long duration, being 
old men at the time of their election. The conclave is a 


rom the Holy Ghoſt. During the election of a Pope in 
aimoſities ran ſo high, that they came to blows with 
tands and feet, and threw the ink ſtandiſhes at each o- 
e ſhall here give an extract from the creed of Pope Pius 


herein the church of Rome differs from the Proteſtant 


nitians in general are agreed, he proceeds as follows: 
truly admit and embrace the apoſtolical and eccleſiaſti- 
, and all other conſtitutions of the ſame church. 

Unit the holy ſcriptures in the ſame ſenſe that the hol 

ch doth, whoſe buſineſs it is to judge of the true ſents 
ation of them; and I will interpret them according to 
ws conſent of the fathers. 

leſs and believe that there are ſeven ſacraments of the 
ud properly ſo called, inſtituted by Jeſus Chriſt our 
celary to the ſalvation of mankind, though not all of 
R 2 them 


— cielo coſt anche in terra; dacci hoggi il noftro pane 


of Italian Cardinals, that the chair may not be removed 


ne the Cardinals principally endeavour to diſplay their 5 
| where many tranſactions paſs which hardly ſhew their 


telore his elevation to the chair, which contains the prin- 


After declaring his belief in one God, and other heads | 


A } - : 


FOES. & 2 
e N 
- . | 


wm 1 * 
them to every one; namely, baptiſm, con fit 
nance, extreme unction, orders, and marriage, and ths 

confer grace; and that of theſe, baptiſm, confirmation,z 
may not be repeated without ſacrilege. I. do alſo recen 
the received and approved rites of the Catholic church in 
adminiſtration of the aboveſaid ſacrgments; + + +14, 
I do embrace and receive all and every thing that ha 
fined and declared by the holy council of Trent “ concen 
- fin and juſtification” 0 ALD 
% I do alſo profeſs, that in the maſs there is offered! 
true, proper, and propitiatory ſacrifice for the quick ant 
and that in the moſt holy ſacrament of the encharilt ths 
really, and ſubſtantially, the body and blood, togeths 
ſoul and divinity of our Lord Jeſus Chriſt; and that the 
verſion made of the whole ſubſtance of the bread into the! 
of the whole ſubſtance of the pine into the blood ; whicht 
the Catholic church calls Tranſubſtantiation, 
„I confeſs that under one kind only, whole and en 
and a true ſacrament is taken and received. | 
I do firmly believe that there is a purgatory ; andthe 
kept priſoners there do receive help by the ſuffrages of thel 
I do likewiſe believe that the ſaints reigning together 
are to be worſhipped and prayed unto ; and that they dot 
= unto God for us, and that their relicts are to be had 
on. l. | 
$ I do moſt firmly aſſert that the images of Chrilt, off 
Virgin the mother of God, and of other ſaints," oqglti 
and retained, and that due honour and veneration th 
unto them +. 15 
„ I do likewiſe affirm, that the power of indulgence 
| Chriſt to the church, and that the uſe of them is'yery is 
Chriſtian people |. 179 5 . 


1 


* Nr of Roman 322 divines, who aſſembled at Tr 
# bull from the Pope, anno 1546, to determine upon certaia points of 5 
ſuppreſs what they were pleaſerl th term the riſing hereſies is the churd. 
f An Engliſh traveller ſpeaking of a religious proceſſion ſome years ap% 
in Italy, deſcribes it as follows: I had occaſion, ſays he, to ſee's prod 
all the nobles of the city attended in their coaches. It was the angie 
ritable inſtitution in favour of poor maidens, a certain number of won 
ed every year · About two hundred of theſe virgins — 
* her- They were preceded and followed hy an mob of f 
ſackcloth, with lighted tapers, and monks carrying crucifixes, bawliog 
litanies ; but the greateſt object was the figure of the Virgin May," 
life, ſtanding within a gilt frame, drefled in a gold tuff, with alup! 
- guantity of falſe jewels, her face painted and patched, and her hair Ein 
the very extremity of the faſhion, Very little regard had bees bal 
pf our Saviour on the craſs; but when the Lady Mother $4 
pf three or four luſty friars, the whole populace fell upon their knee # 
+ + & long liſt of indulgences, or fees of the Pope's 2 | 
nted 150 years ago, by authority of the then Pope» It hay de 

' Engliſh, under the title of Rome 4 great cuſtom-houſe for fin; from 

Biye g few extracts; „ ee 


4 ö 


73 T A I. i. a | ..- 033 
acknowledge. the holy, ;catholic, -and-apoſtolicat:Romaii 
i be the mother and muftreſs of all churehes g and L de 
d ſwear true obedience to the Biſhop of Rome, tlie ſue- 
o Peter, the prince of the apoſtles, and vicar of Jeſus 
on cnn i ti ret ran, +2079 r pacwnyst 
\ undoubtedly receive and profeſs all other things, which 
n delivered, defined, and declared by the ſacred canons 
nenical councils, and eſpecially by the holy ſy nod of Trent. 
beher things contrary thereto, and all hereſtes condemned, 
and anathematized by the church, I do likewiſe condemu, 
nc anathematize.”” Wen? * 41.4 of NOD TITTY en 
i Wrong nano”, vo 
Soto Corus iu TT ALV. rn oog „4 
Wm $7 Dr Ke Dr 
zin, or Chequin, of Venice —— L a — * 0 ? 7 
Italian Piſtole — — O 1 7 
Ducat of Genoa, Venice, and Florencde— 018 7 
ducats of the ſame place.— — 0 9 35 


the SiLver Coins in ITALY. E 

db Ducat of Venice — — — 0 3 6 _ 
, Ducat — e e — oF: 0 

00 it of Naples — — I” ro 2 7 


ABSOLUTIONS. 


ut ſtole holy or conſecrated things out of a holy place, 10 s, 6d. 
bo yes with a woman in the church, 9 s. 
for murdering a layman, 9 6. 6d. - 
tilleth his father, mother, wife, or ſiſter, 10 *. 6d. | 
nolent hands of a c/ergyman, ſo it be without effuſion of blood, 10 s. 6. 
that keeps a concubine; as alſo his diſpenſation for being irregular, 10 8. 6d. 
t lyeth with his own mother, ſiſter, or godmother, 75, 6 d. 
& hurt bis neighbour's houſe, 4 . | 
t forgeth the Pope's hand, 1 I. 78. 
at forgeth letters apoſtolical, x l. 76. 
lat takes two holy orders in one day, 21. 68. 
for going to the holy ſepulchre without licence, 7 L. 10 s. 
8 


DISPENSATIONS. 


An enter all holy orders, 18 s. | 
* voman that is found hanged, that they may have Chriſtian burial, A l. 


LICENCES. 


ito change his row of going to Rome to viſit the apoſtplic churches, 18 8. 
md white meats in Lent, and other faſting days, 10 8. 6d. 

en queen ſhall enjoy ſuch indulgences, as if they went to Rome, 13 J. 
Wy adopt a child, 300 l. br 5 4 
2 prohibited, a1. 5 s. 

1 umes prohibited, 1 I. 4 6. | 

io Caſting days, I1. 58 


* of a church them (murderers) that have taken ſanctuary Greig, 
FACULTIES 


Ueingvents, 31. 
Mi irregularigies, 3 l. 


3... : 


A | Ar 
Tue Catlin; or tenth of a Duett 
| The Teſton of Rome, or 3 Julibe on ls 
The Ducat of Florence, or Leghorn {1 — S,, 
zwtht oo ne r tens n een 
Arm.] The chief armorial bearings in Italy are 11 
Pope, or ſovereign prince over the land of the church, 
eſcutcheon, gules, conſiſting of à long beadcape, or; 
with a croſs, pearled and garniſhed with: three royal a 
ther with the two keys of St Peter, placed in Saltiery 
Tuſcany, or, five roundles, gules, two, two, and ont 
chief, azure, charged with three flower · de · luces of 
nice, azure, 2 lion winged, ſejant; or, holding under; 
paws, 4 book covered, argent. Laſtly, thoſe vf Gena 
croſs, gules, with a crown cloſed for the iſland of Cos 


ſupporters, two griffins, o. 5 0 
States of Italy, Conftiturian, Thus far 1 are de 
and chief Cities. $ treat of! Italy in 


here conſtrained to deviate from my uſual method. 
ſtates are not like the republics of Holland, or Suter 
empire of Germany, cemented by a political confederary 
every member is accountable ; for every Italian fate 
forms of government, trade and intereſts I ſhall-be & 
bliged to take a ſeparate view of each, to aſſiſt the reader] 

2n idea of the whole. | | 


The Duke of SAVOY, or as he is uſually tiled, kay 
DINIA, taking his royal title from that iſland, is noni 
prince in Italy, of which he is called the Janus, e keg 
the French. He has an order of Knighthoodz which u 
Annunciade, inſtituted by the firſt Duke of Savoy, we 
| his brave defence of Rhodes againſt the infidels. 
His Sardinian majeſty's capital, Turin, is Rrongly in 
one of the fineſt cities in Europe; but the country of g 
taineous and barren, and its natives are forced t f 
all over the world. They are eſteemed a fimple but de 
ple. The king is ſo abſolute, that his revenues 
pleaſes to lay upon his ſubjects. His ordinary intim 
own family provinces, cannot be leſs than 500,000, K 
of which he maintains 15,000 men in time of peace.” Us 
when aſſiſted by foreign ſubſ:dies, he can bring to the 
men. The aggrandiſement of his preſent Sardinian mich 
owing to England, to whom, by his ſituation and 
= a natural ally, for the preſervation of the balance! 
rope. ne 
The MILANESE, belonging to the houſe of Aula 
formidable ſtate, and formerly gave law to all Italy, 
the government of its own dukes. The fertility au 
country is almeſt incredible. Milan, the capital, ads 
very ſtrong, and furniſhed with a magnificent.cathedrall 
taſte, which contains a very rich treaſury, conſiling © 
cleſiaſtical furniture, compoſed of gold, ſilver, ad 


- 


OOO ES. 008 
nne of the Duchy is about 360,000 J. annually, which is 
„ maintain an army of 30, oo men. The natives are fond = 
ind political aſſemblies, where they hold forth almoſt on 
| With all its natural and acquired advantages, the na- 

\ make bat ſew exports, ſo that its revenue, unleſs the 
Vienna ſhould purſue ſome other ſyſtem of improvement, 


ablic of GENOA is vaſtly degenerated from its ancient 

j opulence, though the ſpirit of trade (till continues among 
and citizens. Genoa is a moſt ſuperb city. The iuha- 
ditiation dreſs in black, in a plain, if not in an un- 
r, perhaps to ſave expences. Their chief manufactures 
damaſks, gold and ſilver tiffues, and paper. The city 
contains about 150, ooo inhabitants (but ſame writers 
ninilh that number) among whom are many rich trading 
. Its maritime power is dwindled down to fix gallies, 
600 ſoldiers. The chief ſafety of this republic conſiſts in 
ſy of other European powers, becauſe to any one of them 
e a moſt valuable acquiſition. The common people are 
beyond expreſſion, as is the ſoil of its territory. Near the 
arts are tolerably well cultivated. The government of 
urely ariſtocratical, being entirely veſted in the nobility. 


E is one of the molt celebrated republics in the world, on 
ith of its conſtitution and former power. It is compoſed 
fine provinces on the continent of Italy, ſome iſlands in 
c, and part of Dalmatia, The city of Venice is ſeated 
ads at the bottom of the North end of the Adriatic ſea, 
rated from the continent by a marſhy lake of five Italian 
readth, too ſhallow for large ſhips to navigate, which 
principal ſtrength, Venice preſerves the veſtiges of its an- 
ulicence, but is in every reſpect degenerated, except in the 
ich its inhabitants till retain for muſic and munamery 
r carnivals, They ſeem to have loſt their ancient taſte for 
id archite&ure, and to be returning to Gothiciſtn. They 
er, lately had ſome. ſpirited Jifrences with the court 
aid ſeem to be diſpoſed to throw off their obedience to 
4s to the conſtitution of the republic, to which it is ſaid 
err independency, we can write little with any preciſion, 
ls kept a myſtery to all but the members, and even of 
i are its intricacies and checks) few or none know it per- 
we know for certain is, that like Genoa, the govern- 
loeratic, and that the nobility are divided into fix claſſes, 
in the whole to 25004 each of whom, when 25 years of 
ght to be a member bf the council. Theſe elect a doge 
agiltrate, in a peculiar manner by ballot, which is ma - 
Fold and filver balls. The doge is inveſted with great ſtate, 
lems of ſupreme authority, but has very little power, 
ip in the city as a priſoner. The goverament, and laws 
d by hve different councils of the nobles. | 
] Vructian of a noble family is himſelf noble, great 1 
Is 


f 
& 


4 


| 
| 
N 
ö 


0. 7X4 O08 


- bition in Venice, but not comparable for-'niaguilicences 


which in time of peace conſiſts of 16,000 regular" oeh 


badge, which is conferred only on the firſt quality; and d 


ſeſſed by a younger branch of the houſe of Auſtria, after be 


terature and the arts, Efpecially thoſe of painting and ſeal 
is thought to contain above 50,000 inhabitants. The bead 
riches of the grand Duke's palaces,” have been often deſcri 


Venus of Medici, which, take it all in all, is thought 19 


bers of them go about the ſtreets begging, aud geri 

filvet or — ſtrangers, — alm. Al 
are dreſt in black gowns,” large wigs and caps, which wg 
their hands. The ceremony of the e 
once a year, by dropping into it a ring, his bucentam 
barge, attended by thoſe of all the nobility, is the 


tes 


mayor's ſhew. The inhabitants of Venice are faid to 1 
200,00. The grandeur and convenience of the city; put 
the public palaces, the treaſury, and the arſenal, are herd 
fien. Over the ſeveral oanals of Venice, are laid ner go 
the greateſt part of which are ſtone. The Venetian ill 
manufaQures in ' ſcarlet cloth, gold and filver Nu and 
fine looking-glaſſes, all which bring in a confiderablerive 
owners ; that of the ſtate annually is ſaid to artount to dec 
Italian ducats, each valued at twenty pence of our money. 
this are defrayed the expences of the ſtate and "the pay of 


commanded by a foreign general) and 10,000 militia, 
up a ſmall fleet for curbing the inſolencies ef the piratica 
Barbary, and they have among them ſeveral orders of ki 
the chief of which are thoſe of the golden far, {© called} 


order of St Mark, the badge of which is a medal of that ap 
In eccleſiaſtical matters the Venetians have te pate 
authority of one reaches over all the provinces/ but neither! 
have much power; and both of them are choſen by de 
all religions, even the Mahometan and Pagan, excepting Fr 
are here tolerated in the free exerciſe of their religion. 
The Venetians live in the perpetual extremes of the wolf 
debaucheries, or the moſt ridiculous devotion.#" Prielts and 
bandon themſelves to the former, during the carnival 
chiefly held in St Mark's place, where ſometimes 15,000 
ſemble. | 7 e 


The principal city of TUSCANY is Florence, Which i 


held by the illuſtrious houſe of Medicis, who! mäde their d. 
cabingt of all that is valuable, rich, and maſteriy in arch 


all deſcriptions fall ſhort of their contents, ſo that in ere] 
is reckoned, after Rome, the ſecond city in Italy. The o 


ſtandard of taſte in ſemale beauty and proportion, ſtands in 
called the Tribunol. The inſcription on its baſe mentiem 
made by Cleomenes, an Athenian, the ſon of Apo. 7 
of white marble, and ſurrounded by other maſter- pieces 6 

ſome of which are ſaid to be the works of * 
Greek maſters. Every corner of this beautiful et 

between mountains covered with olive · trees, vine: 


„„ 
os. and divided by the Arno, is full of wonders in the 


and contains an archbiſhop's ſee, and a unjverſity, The 
«boaſt of the improvements they have made in the Italian 
by means of their Academia della Cruſoa; and: ſeveral o- 
mies are — r"0 goers Though the Flo» 

ſtate, yet their nobility and geatry drive a retail 
5 they ſell from their cellar windows, and fome- 
even hang out a broken flaſk, as @ ſigu where it may be 
They deal, beſides wine and fruits, in gold and filver 
nee the acceſſion of the Archduke Peter Leopold, brother 
ſeat Emperor, to this Duchy, a great reformation has been 
xd; both into the government, and «manufactures, to the 


could bring to the field, upon occaſion, 30,000 fighting 
that its preſent revenues are above 500,000 J. a year. The 
heipal towns of Tuſcany, are Piſa, Leghorn, and Sienna; 
id laſt are much decayed, . a: 


habitants of LUCCA, which is a ſmall free commonwealth, 
the Tuſcan fea, in a moſt delightful plain, are the moſt in- 
of all the Italians. They having improved their country 
tifol garden, ſo that though they do not exceed 120, 000, 
wal revenue amounts to 80,000 J. ſterling. Their capital 
| which contains above 40,000 inhabitants, who deal in 
gods, wines, and fruits, eſpecially olives. This republic 
be protection of the houſe of Auſtria, -- | 


wblic of St MARINO is here mentioned as a geographical 
lis territories eonſiſt of a high, craggy mountain, with 

nencies at the bottom: and the inhabitants boaſt of having 

| their liberties, as a republic for 1300 years. It is under 

Ron of the Pope, and the inoffenſive manners of the inba- 

Who are not above 5000 in all, with the ſmall value of 

hare preferved its conſtitution. | us 


hcky and city of PARMA, ther with the Duchies of 
ud Gvaſtalla, now form one of the moſt flouriſhing Rates 
df its extent, The ſoil of Parma and Placentia are fertile, 
ce the richeſt fruits and paſturages, and contain conſider« 
hfadures of filk. It is the ſeat of a diſhop's ſee, and an. 


rreggio. The preſent Duke of Parma, is a prince of the 
Bourbon, and ſon to Don Philip the king of Spain's young - 
Ibis country was lately the feat of à bloody war be. 
Auſtrians, Spaniards, and Neapolitaus. The cities of 
a Placentia are enviched with magnificent buldings, bus 


med with him thither, the moſt remarkable pictures, and 
rioſities, The Duke's court is thought to be the politeſt 

„ and it is ſaid that his revenues exceed-100,000 & 
$ | 


ting, ſintuar y, and architecture. It. is a. place of ſome 


| Majeſty, on his acceſſion to the throne of Naples, is ſaid 


i 


it of the fijances. ' Ir is thought that the great Duchy of 


and ſome of its magnificent churches are painted by the 


_ 


The ECCLESIASTICAL STATE, which contains 


Joo, ooo crowns a year, is now much decayed. They 


Roma, tl:at formerly contained a million of inhabitants 


| houſes of Auſtria and Bourbon ſhall pleaſe to deſcribe. 


: THEY 


Wo: 0.7 4 SR. 
ſterling a year, à ſum which I am apt ta think is eg 
i of: Partna i ſaid to contain 50,co00 inhabitants. 


+» MANTUA, formerly a rich Duchy, beinging bo ing 


of it is annexed to that of the Milaneſe, in poſſeſſion of 
Auſtria, The capital is one of the ; ſtrongeſt fortreſſes l 
and contains about 16,000 inhabitants, who boaſt that Va 
native of their country. 2 vid pt ak 63 


The Duchy of MODENA (formerly Mutina) is fill g 
its own Duke, the head of the houſe of Eſte, from-whon 
of Branſwick deſcended. The Duke is abſolute within hi 
minions, which are fruitful. The Duke is under the on 
the houſe of Auſtria, and is a vaſſal of the empire. Hu & 
however, are far from being flouriſhing, though very in 
they; having been alternately waſted by the late belligere 
ia Italy. p 15 


merly the capital of the world, lies about the middle of ld 
bad effects of popiſh tyranny, ſuperſtition, and oppreſſion 
ſeen in the higheſt perfection. Thoſe ſpots, which uadee 
ters of the world, were formed into fo many terreſirul 
ſurrounding their magnificent villas, and enriched with d 
uries that art and nature could produce, are now cot 
noxious peſtilential marſhes and quagmires3z and the 


preſent a miſerable ſubſiſtence to about 500. Notwithitan 
the Pope is a conſiderable temporal prince, and fome in 
his annual revenue amounts to above a million ſterling 
authors calculate them to be much higher. When wel 
paratively, the ſum of a million ſterling is too. high a ren 
riſe from his territorial poſſeſſions; his accidental inc 
formerly far exceeded that ſum, is now diminiſhed by the, 
of the order of the Jeſuits, from whom he drew valt lp 
the meaſures taken by the popiſh powers, for preventug 
eccleſiaſtical iſſues of money to Rome. According to ung.) . 
lateſt accounts, the taxes upon the proviſions and lodging 
ed to foreigners, who ſpend immenſe ſums in viſiting hu 
form now the greateſt part of his accidental revenues. 

has happened within theſe 20 years paſt, there is reaſon 
that the Pope's territories will be reduced to the limit 


Popes have aimed at the improvement of theit᷑ territor! 
labours have had no great effect. The. diſcouragement! 
and agriculture, ſeems to be interwaven- in the con W 
papal government, which is veſted in proud lazy eccleſal 
indolence, and the fanaticiſm of their worſhip, infec then 
who. prefer begging, and impoſing upon ſtrangers, to n 
agricukure, eſpecially as they mult hold their properties 
earious tenure of the will of their ſuperiors. In 


INT ALLY 139 


many parts of the Eccleſiaſtical State muſt periſn through 
did not the fertility of their ſoil ſpontaneouſly afford 
detence, I am here, however, to make one ral re- 
\ Italy, which is, that the poverty and floth of the lower 
0 not take their riſe from their natural diſpoſitions, | 
+Gryation is not confined to the papal dominions. The I- 
"ces affected to be the patrons of all the curious and coſtly 
1 each vied with the other to make his court the repoſito · 
le and magnificence. This paſſion diſabled them from tay- 
money upon works of public utility, or from encouraging 
er relieving the wants of their ſubjects, and its miſe- 
& are ſeen in many parts of Italy. The ſplendour and fur- 
churches in the papal dominions are inexpreſſible, and part - 
at for the miſery of the ſubjects. This cenſure, however, 
{ exceptions, even in a manner at the gates of Rome. 
mn Rome contains, within its circuit, a vaſt number of gar- 
| vineyards.. I have already touched upon its riders rar 
quities. It ſtands upon the Tyber, an inconſiderable river, 
pared to the Thames, and navigated by ſmall boats, bar- 
lohters. The caſtle of St Angelo, though its chief fortreſs, 
— to be a place of ſmall | ry were it regularly be- 
The city ſtanding upon the ruins of ancient Rome lyes 
pher, ſo that it is difficult to diſtinguiſh the ſeven hills on 
was originally built. When we conſider Rome, as it now 
is the ſtrongeſt reaſon to believe that it exceeds ancient 
f, in the magnificence of its ſtructures ; nothing in the 
when miſtreſs of the world, could come in competition with 
$church, and perhaps many other churches in Rome, ex- 
eanty of architecture, and value of materials, utenſils, and 
ber ancient temples; though it muſt be acknowledged that 
dean muſt have been an amazing ſtructure. The inhabi- 
Kome in 1714, amounted to 143, ooo. If we conſider that 
of travelling is much increaſed ſince that time, we cannot 
ſuppoſe them to be diminithed at preſent. - 
s nothing very particular in the Pope's temporal govern- 
dune Like other princes, he has his guards, or ſbirri, who 
ot the peace of the city, under proper magiſtrates, both 
Kal and civil, The compagna di Roma, which contains 
under the inſpection of his Holineſs. In the other provin- 
erns by legates and vice · legates. He monopolizes all the 
territories, and has always a ſufficient number of troops 
nder proper officers, to keep the provinces in awe. The 
pe, who has taken the name of Clement XIV. has wiſely 
Lal intention of oppoſing any arms to the neighbouring 
Rt thoſe of prayers and\ſupplications.. 
under the head of religion, mentioned the eccleſiaſtical 
of the papacy, | 
le Rota, and other ſubordinate chambers of this complica- 
Kin, they are too numerous to be even named, and do 
pelſy under my plan. Under a government ſo conſtituted, 
ſappoſed that the commercial exports of the Eccleſiaſti- 
ect much value. 
8 2 Next 


\ —— 


A 14 N x © Tu AL LE RES 

Next to Rome, Bovocy a, the capital of the Bologna 
conſiderable city in the Eccleſiaſtical State, and an eto 
indolence of its other inhabitants. The government ig un 
a latere, who is always a.cardinal, changed every 


I be people here live more ſociably and comfortably, th 


ſubjeQs of the Pope; and perhaps their diſtance from 
is 165 miles North-Weſt, has contributed to their cafe, 
the Eccleſiaſtical State contains many towns celebrated 
tory, and even now exhibiting the moſt ſtriking ved 
flouriſhing Rate about the beginning af the 46th. centan 
are at preſent little better than deſolate, though here 
luxurious magnificent church and convent; may: be found 
ſupported by the toil and ſweat of the neighbouring pe 

The grandeur of Ferrara, Raviwns, KEE TH 
tive city of the celebrated painter Raphael) Avcous, 
ther ſtates, and cities, illuſtrious in former times, are non 
only in their ruins and ancient hiſtory. Loxsrro, a 
hand, an obſcure ſpot, never thought or heard of, in in 
quity, is now the admiration of the world, for the richai 
and the prodigious reſort to it of pilgrims, and other d 
a notion induſtrioufly propagated by the Romilk cle 
Houſe in which the Virgin Mary is faid to have dwelt ail 
was carried thither through the air by angels, attended x 
other miraculous circumſtances, ſuch as that all the wee 
rival of the ſacred manſion, bowed with the profoundet i 
and great care is taken to prevent any bits of the materi 
Houſe, from being carried to other places, and expoſed # 
the prejudice of Loretto. The image of the Virgin 
the Divine Infant, are of cedar, placed in a {mall x 
parated from the others by a ſilver ballaſtrade, which wu 
the ſame metal. It is impoſſible to deſcribe the goid's 
rings, and jewels, emeralds, pearls, and rubies,” 
image is loaded, and the angels of ſolid gold, who arc i 
on every ſide, are equally enriched with the moſt precour 
To the ſuperſtition of Roman catholic princes, - Lore 
for this maſs of treaſure. It has been matter of Jur 
attempt has yet been made by the Turks upon Loretto, « 
it is badly fortified, and ſtands near the ſea. 


The king of Nayres and SiciLy, or, as he is more. 
led, the king of the Two Sicilies, (the name of Sicily vai 
to beth) is poſſeſſed of the largeſt dominions of amg n 
as they comprehend the ancient countries of -Sammums 
Apulia, Magna Grecia, and the iſland of Sicily. 139 
ed on all ſides by the Mediterranean and the Adriatic) 
the North-Eaſt, where Naples terminates on the Techels 
The air is hot, and its ſoil fruitful of every thing 
The wines called Vino Grego, and Lachryme Con 


* 
The city of Naples its capital, which is eftremely ſuperd 
ed with all the profuſion of art and riches, and its pep 
would be one of the moſt delightful places in Europe to 
it not for their vicinity to the volcano of Veſuvius, ud 


* 
: 


F A — ˙ü RR = at 


ein with deftruRtion, and cha foil being peſtered wich 
reptiles, ſome of which are venomous. 
above two-thirds of the property of the kingdom are in 
of the ecelefiaſtics, the proteſtants live here wich great 
and though his Neapolitan Majeſty preſents to his Holack 
pontificate, yet no inquiſuſen is eſtabliſhed in Naples. 
at revenues of that king, amoynt to 759,000 . ſterling 'Y 
«is more than probable, that, by the new. ellabliſbed police 
the princes of the houſe of Bourbon, of abridging the 
id revenues of the clergy, bis Neapolitan Mayety's annual 
N conſiderably exceed a million ferhng. He has a fume» 
oor nobjlity, conſiſting of princes, dukes, 8 and 
ſounded titles; and his capital, by far the populous 
ontains, at leaſt, 300,000 inhabitants. Through every 
s kingdom the traveller may be ſaid to tread an claſle 
ad no country preſents the eye with more beautiful praſ · 


nd of $1c11,y, once the granary of the world for corn, 
wes to ſupply Naples, and ther parts, with that commo : 
its cultivation, and conſequently fertility, is greatly dimi- 
vegetable, mineral, and animal productions, are pretty 
ſame with thoſe of Italy. Palermo, its capital, is ſaid tg 
20,000 inhabitants, and both that city and Meſſina, carry 
trade, | | 


id of Saab, which gives a royal title to the duke of 
es about 150 miles Weſt of Leghorn. Its capital, Cagh» 
miverſity, an archbiſhopric, and the feat of the viceroy, 
pht that his Sardinian Majeſty's revenues, from this iſland, 
eed 50001, ſterling a year, though it yields plenty of corn 
and has a coral flhery. Its air is bad from its marſhes 
It was formerly annexed to the crown of Spain, but 
— Utrecht it was given to the Emperor, and in 171 to 
avop, | | 


land of Cors1ca lyes oppoſite the Genoeſe continent, be- 
Felph of Genoa, and the ifland of Sardinia, and is better 
the noble land which the inhabitants have made of late 
eral Paoli, for their liberty, againſt their Genoeſe tyrants, 
ids the French arms, than from any — 7 they 
m nature or ſituation. Though mountainous woody, 
corn, wine, Gigs, almonds, cheſnuts, olives, and other 
allo ſome cattle and horſes, and is plentifully ſupplied, 
Fa and rivers, with (fiſh, The inhabitants are ſaid to 
120,000, Baſtia, the capital, is a place of ſome ſtreagth, 
owns of the iſland, that were in poſſeſſion of the male- 
4Ppar to have been but poorly fortified. 


„Beni, and other iſlands, on the coaſts of Naples and 
*Wiking to diſtinguiſh them, bot rhe ruins of their anti» 
| Witles, 


242 2 5 1 T A 1 L Y. 
_ quities, and their being now beautiful ſummer retreat it 
ETS. K * WW: >» 


1 ſhall here mention the iſle of Marra though it u 
ranked with the Italian iſſands. It was formerly cali 
is ſituated in 15 deg. E. long. and 45 deg. N. lat. 60 ni 
Cape Paſſaro in Sicily, and is of an oval figure, 20 mg 
12 broad. Its air is clear, but exceſſively hot; the y 
ſeems to be a white rock covered with a thin ſurface ofz 
is however amazingly productive of excellent fruits and 
and garden ſtuff of all kinds. This iſland, or rather ny 
ven to the knights of St John of Jeruſalem in 1530, by 
Charles V. when the Turks drove them out of Rhode, 
are now known by the diſtinction of the knights of Mal 
are under yows of celibacy and chaſtity, but they keep 
much better than the latter. They have conſiderable x 
the Roman catholic countries on the continent, and we 
government of a grand niaſter, who is elected for life 100 
conſidered as the bulwark of Chriſtendom again the Ti 
ſide. They wear croſſes of a particular form, and theys 
degenerated from the military glory of their predeteſt 
are generally of noble families, and are ranked | 
nations. Not only their chief town Valetta, or Malta, $t 
bour, but their whole ifland is ſo well fortified, as to bed 
pregnable by the. infidels, | 


Hiſtory. ] Italy was probably firſt peopled from Grete e 
mentioned in the introduction. The ſucceſſors of b 
claimed, and for ſome time poſſeſſed the ſovereignty hy 
their civil wars at home, ſoon gave an opportunity toll 
nors, to either aſſume or purchale the ſovereignty of the 
over which they preſided. 


Savoy and Piedmont, in time, fell to the lot of the o aft 
rienne, the anceſtors. of his preſent Sardinian Majelty, . 
(as I have already obſerved) became king of Sardinia, Gn "ar 
the quadruple alliance concluded in 1718 f. 


The Milaneſe, the faireſt portion in Italy, went tar 
hands; the Viſcontis were ſucceeded by the Gallen 
Sforzas, but fell at laſt into the hands of the Emperit\ 

about the year 1525, who gave it to his ſon Philip II. ul 
It remained with that crown till the French were drin 
in 1706, by the imperialiſts. Theſe were diſpofſeſſed « 
but by the Emperor's ceſſion of Naples and Sicily, to thef 
of Spain, it returned to the houſe of Auſtria, who gih 


VICETOY, da fl 
. D 

+ Charles Emanual III. king of Sardinia, was born 170T, and a befor | 

| e 


in 2730. He hath iſſue, 
1. Victor-Ame-Maria, Duke of Savoy, born in 17263 and mar 
Maria Antonietta, of Spain, born in 1729. | 
2. BenediQ-Maurice, Duke de Chablais, born 1747 ; and four? 


E N & Ir 143 


hy of Mantua was formerly governed by the family of 
vho adhering to France, the territory was forfeited as a 
empire, to the houſe of Auſtria, which now poſſeſſes it, 
ke dying without male-ifſue ; but Guaſtella was ſeparated 


2 Duke of Parma was natural fon to Pope Paul III. 
having been annexed to the Holy See in 1545, by Pope 
The deſcendants of the houſe of Farneſe terminated in 
deen dowager of Spain, whoſe ſon, his preſent Catholic 
tained that Duchy, and his nephew now holds it with 
of Placentia. FW | ' | 


etians were formerly the moſt formidable maritime 1 
In 1194, they conquered Conſtantinople ieſelf and 
ſome time, together wi part of the continent of 
d Aſia, They were more than once brought to the brink" 
jon, by the confederacies formed againſ them, among 
powers of Europe, eſpecially by the league of Cambary, 
ut were as often ſaved by the diſunion of the confederates. 
ery of a paſſage to India, by the Cape of Good Hope, gave 
low to their greatneſs, as it loſt them the Indian trade. 
the Turks took from them their moſt valuable poſſeſ- 
te continent, and ſo late as the year 1715, they loſt the 


noeſe, for ſome time, difputed the empire of the Medi- 
ſea, with the Venetians, but were ſeldom or never able to 
heir own independency by land, being generally protected, 
mes ſubjected by the French and imperialiſts. Their 
rſt magiſtrate, is crowned king of Corſica, though it does 
appear by what title, and net being able to enforce their 
the ſword, they ſold it to the French, who ſubdued the 
b after a brave reſiſtance, The ſucceſsful effort made by 
le in driving the victorious Auſtrians out of their capital, 
var which was terminated by the peace of Aix la-Cha- 
43, bas few parallels in hiſtory, and ſerves to ſhew the 
delpair under oppreſſion. At preſent they are poſſeſſed 
barely ſufficient to preſerve the appearance of a ſove- 


at Duchy of Tuſcany belonging to the emperors of Ger- 
” governed it by deputies, to the year 1240, when the 
actions of the Guelphs, who were the partizans of the 
the Gibellines, who were in the Emperor's intereſt, took 
ropes then perſuaded the imperial governors in Tuſcany, 
aſe|ves under the protection of the church, but the Flo- 
T a ſhort time, formed themſelves into a free common- 
: bravely defended their liberties againſt both parties by 
* at lalt ſhook their freedom, and the family of Me- 
s "re they were declared either princes or dukes, in fact 
ne, though the rights and privileges of the people 

ſeemed 


. ˙ü- WW Re - 9 nay > 


n 
ſeemed fil} to exiſt; The Medioi, partie ulurby Coſine; 
ſiorvedly called the father of his coumry; being inthe #6, 
with the Venetians in the immenſe profits of the Rally 
before the diſcoveries made by the Portugueſe His 
ready money, Which exceeded that of any -fovertign ü 
rope, enabled his ſucceſſors to riſe to ſovereign power, 
Plus V: gave one of his deſcendents Colmo-(the great py 
arte) the title of great Duke of Tuſcany in 1%, which 
in his family to the death of Gaſton de Modicis in 
ifſie. The Duchy was then claimed by the Rune 
VI. as a fiet of the empire, and given to his ſor in-law 
of Lorrain, and late Emperor, in lieu of the Duchyof Long 
| was ceded to France by treaty. Leopold, his ſecond fog 
Iv to the preſent Emperor, is now grand Duke, and Tua 
TY new face. Leghorn, which betongs to him, carries ona 
1 and ſeveral ſhips of very confiderable force are now ſtatk 
| Nuſcan coaſts to prevent the depredations of: the infidels, 


— 


nd > 


4 ws 
” = = + -. > ww = 


: No country has undergone greater vioiſſitudes bf gore 
= Naples or Sicily, chiefly owing to the inconllancy oft 
ll which ſeems to be incorporated with their alt. Cris 
racens by turns coriquered it. The Normans under Taw 
ont the Saracens, and by their connections with the Greeks 
, there, while the reſt of Europe was plunged in mont 
moſt reſpectable monarehy Rlourifhing in arts and arms. 1 
year 1166, the Popes being then all powerful in Europe, the 
broke into the ſucceſſion of Tancred's line, and Naples 
at laſt came into the poſſeſſion of the French; and the wut 
jon, with ſome interruptions, and tragical revolutions, 
the Spaniards drove them out in 1504, and it was the 
the crown of Spain. | 7. 5 
The government of the Spaniards was ſo oppreflive, ti 
riſe to the famous revolt, headed by Maſſaniello, a young 
without ſhoes or ſtockings. His ſucceſs was ſo. ſurptiing 
obliged the haughty Spaniards to aboliſh the oppretiwet 
to confirm the liberties of the people. Before theſe eu 
bliſhed perfectly, he turned delirious, through his comm 
tions of body and mind, and he was put to death at the 
own mob. Naples and Sicily continued with the Spanian 
year 1506, when the Archduke Charles, afterwards Lat 
poſſeſſion of the kingdom. By virtue of various treaties, Þ 
introduced Don Carlos, the king of Spain's ſon, to the p 
Parma and Placentia, a new war broke out in 174 * 
houſes of Auſtria and Bourbon, about the poſſeſſien « 
and Don Carlos was received into the capital, where bt 
claimed king of both Sicilies; this was followed by a 
campaigne, but the farther effuſion of blood was firſt 
between France and the Emperor, to which the cou? 
and Naples at firſt demurred, but afterwards acceded u 
Bon Carlos remained king of Naples. e 
Upon his acceſſion to the crown of Spain in 175% *® 
by the inſpection of Phyſicians, and othet trials, that W 
was by nature incapacitated for reigning, be * 


— * 
PPP ³˙¹——ẽB] x —ͤ˙ e w 
5 — * "I 


| 
| 
| 


| | 


—— —— — 
— —— —— —CXœ8ꝛ—— — — 


4 | f \ 


u third ſon, Ferdinand IV. who lately married an Arch- 
Auſtria *. 


x of the Papacy is confieted with that of Chriſtendom 
+ maſt ſolid foundations for its temporal power were laid 
nous Matilda, Counteſs of Tuſcany, and heireſs to the 
rt of Italy, who bequeathed a large portion of her domis 
the famous Pope Gregory VII. | who, before his aeceſſion 
ras ſo well known by the name of Hildebrand.) The ig - 
the laity, and the other cauſes that operated to the ag- 
at of the papacy, previous to the reformation, have been 
tioned. 
that the Popes have had more than onee great weight in 
airs, chiefly through the weakneſs and bigotry of tem- 
es, who ſeem now to be recovering from their religious 


* over is evidently now at a low ebb. The order'of 
0 are not improperly called its Janiſſaries, has been ex- 


xd in other popiſh countries. The Pope himſelf is treat - 
an Catholic princes, with very little more ceremony than 
m as biſhop of Rome, and poſſeſſed of a temporal princi«- 
lis humiliation, it is reaſonable to believe, will terminate 
earation from the Holy See of all its foreign-emoluments;z 
„ ſince the beginning of the preſent century, were im- 
| to the reducing his Holineſs to the exerciſe of his ecclefi- 
ions as firſt biſhop of Chriſtendom . * 


| 
' 
| 


- 38 


ve 


TZERLAND, olim HELVETIA. 


* 


. BETWEEN the latitudes of 45 and 48 degrees 
North; about coo miles on a mean: And be- 
Kapitudes of 6 and 11 degrees Eaſt, about 260 miles. 


*] Bounded on the North by Alſace and Swabia ig 
Lil by the Lake of Conſtance, Tyrol, and Trent. 


buth by Italy. 
Welt by France. 


W ASK. 


EIT. ting of the Two Sicilies, third ſon of the preſent king of Spain, 
Ii, and married 1568, to the Archducheſs Maria-Caroline- Louiſa, ſiſ- 
r of Germany, born in 1752. 


=,” -- 


T 


— 


r — — Cﬀ 


4 t r 2 EAN AN wg 


| out of France, Spain, Naples, and Portugal; and is but 


_ Ganganelli, was elected Pope in 1769, and took upon him. 


: 


Even ſince that æra the ſtate of Europe has 


a S WIT Z ER ILA 
ane F212 eiche tars 13 Cantons, wiz," 
Cantons. : Relig. Ch. towns, Cantons, l Relig 1 


Bearn, | Welt[Proteſt.[Bearn © {Api \[Procedl 
Friburg,  Weſt|Popiſh [Friburg, ug. M 
Baſil, ' WeſtfProteſt.{Baſfil, _ |Swils- Mid 
Lucerne, Weſt|Popifh Lucerne laris MidJProdt 
Boloturn, WeſtſPopiſh Soleure Jris Mid pop 
Schaff hauſen, E. Proteſt. Schaff hauſen Under wald Po 


Zurick, EaſtProteſt. Zuricx 


1 N . 
Ne 1 


3 10 See . 

ALLIES or Taz SWITZ EN pl 

8 a bc N | Ch. towns, | | \ n 

384 2 Griſon Leagues |Coire , . 8. W. 

9 8 4 N Schiavenna Chiavenns Wals 0 

8 52. JValteline Tiranta N pa 
S YS ( Bormio Bormio [Neufchattel 

& 8 * 82 Est Gall, Repub. ) Bens wh - 

we St. Gall, 5 St Gall. JMulbauſnN 7 


Tockenburgh 


_ A 4 


SUBJECTS OF THE SWITZER| 

* Ch. towns. | | | 
Saragans, County [furor [ern Bailiage þ 7 
Lug in 2 

5 


* 


Turgow, County, N. E.] Furgow [Lucarno, Bailiag 
Rotweil, County Rotweil IBellents, Bailiage 


The towns of Baden, Bremgarten, Mellengen, | 
Frawenfield, on the North) an 


Air, Soil, Seaſons, and Water.) This being a mountai 7 2 
try, lying upon the Alps, the froſts are conſequently WS fro 
ter, the hills being covered with ſnow; ſometimes alf ti 
In ſummer, the inequality of the ſoil renders the ſame pn 
unequal in its ſeaſons ; on one ſide of thoſe mountains, 
. tants are often reaping, while they are ſowing on aun 
vallies, however, are warm and fruitful, when well 
they generally are. The country is ſubject to rains 1 
for which reaſon public granaries are every where, e16% 
the failure of their crops. The water of Switzerland 
excellent, and often deſcends from the mountains in ] Th 
cataracts, which have a pleaſing effect. 


Rivers and Lakes.] The chief rivers are the Rhine, voy 
the mountains of this country, the Aar, the Ruſs, Me. 
Rhone, the Thur and the Oglio. The lakes in this Wu 5 
computed to be about zo, there being ſcarce'a moun 


1 


— 


dung, Zurich, Neufehattel and Biende. 


— The mountains contain mines of iron, chry- 
ſulphor, and ſprings of mineral waters. 1 * 


dy tions of this country; corn and wood, and ſome wine, 


however, of all thoſe articles, are no more than ſuſicieat 
\bitants, who are too far removed from water carriage to 


plenty of game, fiſh, and fowl. 


Ares and Trafic.) Their manufactures and traffic are very 
ible, and conſequently they are very poor; and for that 


pazines of corn in every province almoſt, againſt a time 
There is a conſiderable linen manufacture lately eſta - 
the North-Eaſt of Switzerland, near the abbey of St Gall: 
pbable that they may ſoon have ſome trade, as the manu- 
ff filks and wool have lately been taken up in ſome places: 


mmerce ; of which ſociety there have been publiſhed fe» 
nes of their memoirs. ö 


n Manners, Cuſtoms, ? According to the beſt accounts, 
{ Diverſtons. 5 the thirteen cantons of Switzer- 
in about 2,800,000 of inhabitants, who are a brave, har- 
nous people, remarkable ſor their fidelity and attach - 
e cauſe they undertake. Like the old Romans, they are 
red to arms and agriculture. All the cantons are regi- 
a manner that contributes equally to the ſafety and pro- 
abitants, who ſupply foreign powers with excellent ſol- 
y are ſo jealous of their liberties, that they diſcourage 
from ſettling among them. Their nobility and gentry 
profeſſion of trade and manufactures. It is ſaid, that in 
of Switzerland, the inhabitants, eſpecially thoſe towards 
zin to degenerate from the ancient ſimplicity of their 
K dreſs, The cuſtoms and diverſions are of the warlike 
und, and the magiſtrates of moſt of the cantons, impoſe 
Plays, gaming, and even dancing, excepting at mar- 


| Though all the Swiſs \cantons form but one political re · 
e are not united in religion, as the reader, in the 
« may perceive. Thoſe differences in religion former- 
ay public commotions, which ſeem now to have ſab- 
AB, commonly called Zuinglius, was the apoſtle of Pro- 
u Sxitzerland. He was a moderate reformer, and dif- 
T 3 = ds fered 


rop of it, The chief are thoſe of Geneva, Conſtance, 


and fatal Produdtions.] Sheep and cattle are the chief 
ers of almoſt every kind, are like wiſe found here. The 


by the ſtately timber that grows in their woods. They 


hibit all Jace and jewels, and are extremely frugal. . They 


ally as an academy was inſtituted in the year 1760, called 
c Society of Berne, eſtabliſhed for the purpoſes of agricul- 


U $w1TzrRL AW 


ſpeak a baſtard Freneh, as thoſe near Italy do a corru 


is fo well known in all Proteſtant countries, inſtituted 


of that country. The ingenious and — Rouſeat 
0-m 


in firſt abuſing the French muſic, and then,compolinga 


ol St John the Baptiſt annually, which ſeldom fas 
Beſides the general diets, their differences in-relig 


* 


fered from Luther and Calvin only in a few ſperalais 
that Calviniſm is ſaid to be the religion of the Protellay 


_ Language:] Several lang | prevail in- itzerl 
moſt common is German. The Swiſſes, who border 


| 
/ . 


” Learning and learned Men,} | Calvin, BY Frenchaian, 


city. of Geneva, which are held in high eſteem by the ul 


works the preſent age have received wich fo. 
citizen of Geneva. Rouſſeau has given a force tothe 

zua ge, which it was thought incapable of receiving, 
Fe is generally known as a proſe writer only, butthe Fn 
him as a poet. His opera of the Devin de e in 
much eſteemed ; but in this he has ated with his uſu 


| Univerſities, ] The univerſity of Baſil was founded 

contains à noble library, ſome valuable manuſcripts, 
collection of medals, and has a curious phyſie garden, 
univerſities, or, as they are at prefent only called,” 
thoſe of Bern, Lauſanne and Zurich, t. 


© Government.) The general diet, which repreſents they 
dy, conſiſts of two deputies. from each canton belde 
Abbot of St Gall, and the cities of St Gall and of n 
ties as allies ; and a general diet is-vſually held at Vac! 


the reformation, - occaſioned partial diets: the m, 
tween the cantons ſeems, in ſome meaſure,” Jaſt, I 
each party for their particular opinions. This enters 8 
into all'their public actions: and though their gelen 
continued to regulate the affairs of their common baiugl 
matters of importance are treated of at particular diets 
tive religions; that of the Proteſtants being held 
of the Roman catholics at Lucern; which, being d 
catholic canton, acts as their head; and that of Zur 
of the Proteſtants. Theſe diets are ſummoned when 
the parties pleaſe : the thirteen cantons do not make ® 
wealth, but are ſo many independent ſtates, united togf 
alliances for their mutual delence. * 

The government of ſome of the cantons is ariſtocri 
others democratical. The ſeveral ariſtaeratical casten 
Zuric, Bern, Lucern, Baſil, Friburg, Soleury and 
the other 1ix are deocratical. 


Arm.] The arms of Geneva, are Or, a croſs an 


SK WII 2 2 R L. "A: N D. 149 
| has its particular arms, which this epitome. will not ad- 
_ ting Re Dr 


The Switzers let out their troops for dire, to ſecve any 
der furniſh nations that are enemies with ſeparate bodies, 
t comes co paſs, that the neareſt relations, father and ſon, 
ad brother, are frequently engaged, it is ſaid, agaia(t each 
beat out one another's brains, as it were in ſport, when 
no manner of concern in the quarrel... But this, ſay ſome; 
dlefs charge: For, 1. They neyer grant their troops to 
or tate, but by virtue of ſome preceding allianse. 2. They 
ps only for the defence of the nation they are given to; 
© a& offenlively 3 ſo that the Swiſs troops, in the French 

never ſuffered to invade the empire, or Holland; nor, 
ontrary, the Swils, who are in the ſervice of thoſe two 
0 invade France, And, 3. The Sovereign never receives 
dy or perquiſite from the prince or ſtate to whom their 
granted, contenting themſelves with procuring a benefi- 
e to their ſubjects, without reſerving any profit. to.them- 
zut what is offered on, this ſubject, ought to be reſtrained 
the Proteſtant cantons; for' it is acknowledged that the 
{ the Catholic cantons, and-eſpecially thoſe called the petty» 
e too often given occaſion for drawing reproaches on the 
ion, from thoſe who do not diſtinguiſh between one and 
: ſo that it ſeems the charge is true in part, though not 


by. a 
ng ſorces have ever been thought inconſiſtent with the wel · 
le republics, ſince their inſtitution; but there is no where 
2 better regulated militia :. every male, from ſixteen to 
enrolled,” and about one third of them regimented; and, 
$ neceſſary, every regimented perſon, upon the beat of a 
pairs to the houſe of his officer, properly accoutred for ac- 
* arms which are in their own keeping: their military con- 
between thirteen and fourteen thouſand men. 


„] It is computed that the revenues of Bern, the largeſt 
ounting to 300,000 crowns à year, and that of Zuric, 
o of which two thirds are expended in the charges of the 
at, andithe reſt laid up in the treaſury. The revenues of 
W cantons are much leſs, but they all lay up ſomething in 

from this bank large ſums are laid out in the public funds; 
ted they have near half a million ſterling in the Engliſh 


| Their revenues ariſe, 1. From the profits of the demeſne 
ach belong to the tate. 2. The tenth of the produce of 
ad: in the country. 4, A certain tax upon lands, which 
* property of the gentry, called in French, Cenſes, Fon - 
+ Cutoms and duties on merchandize. And, 5. The re- 
May from the ſale of ſalt. - From the laſt they raiſe the 
Ws, for the ſtates alone retail it to the ſubjects, and im- 
ee they pleaſe, There is another caſual tax * 
rom 


. » 


150 S ] IT Z ER LAN 


| from che fale of all eſtates; the Sovereign being milky 
part of the value upon every — 3 


Antiguitiet and Curioſities.) Mr Addiſon relates, that d 
he viewed the wall of the cathedral church, Which u 
one earthquake, and cloſed ſome years afterwards hy 

About five miles from Ny on, are the ruins of Czlar's 
extended eighteen miles -in- len viz. from mount 
banks of the lake of Geneva, as Cæſar has deſcribel i 
book of his commentar ies. 
Ide ſituation of Friburg, the capital of that"canton; kf 
lar, among rocks and precipices, that they are foreedwi 
to ſeveral parts of it by ſtair - caſes of a prodigious alcent; 4 
lege of Jeluits here, is ſaid to be the fineſt" in iter 
whence there are ſeveral beautiful proſpects. And they 
lection of pictures, repreſenting moſt of the fathersof thi 
among whom are ſome natives of England, by us filed ri 
by them 'martyrs. The inſcription under” Henry Gard 
That when the heretics could not prevail on him, either yl 
1 to — his religion, they hanged and quam 

wo leagues from Friburg there is a little hermitage, el 
of the greateſt curioſities in Switzerland, It lyes in the pat 
litude imaginable, among woods and rocks, weh, & 
incline one to be ſerious. The hermit, who was living nt 
1707, had lived here five-and-twenty years, and with his« 
wrought out of the rock a pretty chapel, a facrilty, a 
kitchen, cellar, and other conveniencies.” His chimney ie 
through the whole rock, notwithſtanding the rooms ye we 
and has cut the fide of the rock into a level for a garden, 
he brought the earth he found in the neighbouring pa, 
made ſuch a ſpot of ground of it, as furniſhes out kind 
for an hermit; and, as he obſerved the drops of water 
from ſeveral parts of the rock, by following the veins lt 
made himſelf two or three fountains in the bowels uf the 
which ſerve his table, and water his little garden. 

The public walks by the great church at Bern are worth 
ing: they are raiſed extremely high; and, that their wc 
not break down the walls and pilaſters that ſurround them 
built upon arches and vaults. Theſe walks afford the un 
mer proſpects in the world; for here yon have à full v. 
range of mountains, that lye in the country of the Orient 
covered with ſnow. They are about fourſcore miles d 
Bern; but their height and colour make them ſeem muck 
the cathedral ſtands on one fide of theſe walks, and is c 
molt magnificent Proteſtant church in Europe, out of Logs 

In the Alps, the difference of ſeaſon in one and the fant 
is very remarkable; for travellers may in one day mer m 
on the tops of the mountains, the ſpring on the lower par 
with pleaſant green paſture ; and hay-time and > 
of the mountains and in the vallies. n IS» 

Some of their animals, ſuch as bears, hares, and c 
are white in winter. And here are the Pyrites &r% at 


117 


tie 
1 


g WI T 2 E R L AN. D. 15 
ue a fort of marcaſites found on the tops of the Alps; and 
| ſhed down by brooks. They reſemble our Engliſh ruſt 
1. when broke, are full of ſtreaks. from the circumference 
drr, which ſhines like gold and falver, Kees 


+ {alſe diamonds are pieces of the | chryſtal, with great 
angles, and moſt of them have ſmall columns in the 


es reſembling pieces of money, -marked with ſtrokes,” con- 
th fides, and look like gloſs the ſurface of which appears 
1 all over with pieces of coin. e : 

K ſhining chryſtal ſtones like hexagon pyramids, ſome of 
"ain black antimony chryſtalized. Veins of filver, copper, 
| and ſclenites of chryſtal, with ſpots, which increaſe and 
with the moon. | tin" 247 | © 
nty of black marble with white veins and ſpots, ſymptoms 
ack pyrites, veins of ſilver vitriol, black foſſile ſtone. 

rell, which ebbs and flows once a day; and another which 
e months, and is dry the other three. I. 
b12ceries, or Ice Vallies, are an uncommon. curioſity. Many 
ats of antiquity have been diſcovered near the baths of Ba- 
ch were known to the Romans in the time of Tacitus. 
nd boaſts of many noble religious buildings, particularly a 
F Jeſuits ; and many cabinets of valuable manuſcripts, an- 
ad curioſities of all kinds. | | 


} Thoſe of Germany, France, and Italy are current here. 


LUTIONS AV PRESENT CONSTITUTION. 


Helvetians, or Switzers, were brought under the dominion 
ie Romans by Julius Cæſar, who added it to their pro- 
Gaul, They were afterwards part of the kingdom of Bur - 
then ſubject to France, and then to the German empire, 
bich they were cruelly oppreſſed notwithſtanding their peti- 
bout the year 1300. the Emperor Albert appointed them 
an governor, one Grieſſer, who, in the wantonneſs of dar - 
Iny, ordered the natives to reverence his hat ſet upon a 
nch being with a proper ſpirit refuſed by one WILLIAN 
noted markſman with a croſs-bow, he was ſentenced to be 
i he did not, at a certain diſtance, ſhoot an apple from the 
us own fon: TELL hit the apple with one of two ſhort ar- 
bolts, which he had provided ; and, being aſked what the 
intended for, he boldly anſwered, for thy heart, 'O ty- 
LI killed my ſon. He was ordered to priſon, but eſcaped, 
A ome others, brought about a revolution, which produced 
independent ſtates of the Helvetic nation; and, at the 
Veltphalia, 1648, they were acknowledged free and in- 

4 the united provinces were at the ſame treaty, In 
*a commenced between the Proteſtant and Popiſh cantons, 
Catholics were unſucceſsful, loſing Baden, and other 
ln this war, the canton of Bern alone brought forty 
den into the field. Theſe cantons were much more con- 

ſiderable, 


* 


ſo are their allies of Geneva. 


neva, it is ſaid, they ſpeak good French, but, "Wn 


tion of their ſervices in defence of that Duchy 


is the largeſt, the —— power is lodged ll 


eil. In the little democratical, cantons, the e 
ge d in the diffuſive body of the people 3 and went 


ſo have a general diet of their perſuaſion; and 


* 


= | . * | 45 9 I 
'ng2 S WITZ ER LL AR 
4 - ; 8 unn me. «YL \ 
ligion. E300 ener 1. a af "2 ls 
Bern, and the larger cantons, are ariſlgoraclen_ 


or diet, conſiſting of 209 of the moſt ſu ial 
the executive power is a ſenate of 27, eleted our 


teen, whether maſter, or ſervant, has a vote 
in the choice of magiſtrates. - There is a genera 
tons held. at Baden, at Midſummer, annually 


theirs; but they ſoldom fit longer than a month = 
The Proteſtant cantons are all Calviniſta 


„ 
1 
* Fe 1 
0 


The language in Switzerland is either Highs 
Italian, according to the countries which %% 


ꝛzerland, it is very much corrupt. 
The country of the Griſons was part of th 
conſiſts of three diviſions, 1. The Griſons, of Gr: 
League of the Houſe of God; and, 3. The Pen 
theſe are ſubdivided into ſeveral leſſer commune 
many democracies, every. male above ſixteen W_ 
government of the ſtate, and electing magiſii 
or repreſentatives from the ſeveral communities 
neral diet of the Griſon leagues, which meet 
at the capital city of Coire ; but they can c 
the conſent of the ſeveral communities which fenan_ 
Two thirds of the ſubjects of the Griſon league 
of the ſect of Calvin. The Valteline, with te 
and Chiuvanna, were formerly part of the Du_ 
ceded to the Griſons by the Sforzas, Dukes of 


1161 


that the Popiſh religion only ſhould be profeſ 
fruitful countries; and the Valteline being a vwall_ 
many has an eaſy communication with Italy 3ne_ 
been much contended for by the Germans and BR 
lian wars. | _— 
The reſt of the allies of Switzers, viz. the Vane 
Tockenburg, are ſo many diſtin republics j a_ 
though the king of Pruſſia is ſtiled Sovereign o 


. 


O 


3 


1 £ 


— — 
— 8 > of 
- — 7 
5 5 — 4 
-—- 
- - P 2 


r 
RI 


22 E *; A 
8 
Y 5 : ws ; 


PROVINCE.S 


LETHERLANDS us 


1 5 "= IT Fy ye rr 4 ö ; 
een Provinces were formerly part of Gallia Belgica, 
is of the circle of Belgium or Burguady in the 
ire. They obtained the general name of Netherlands, 
0 Counties, from their ſituation in reſpect of Germany. 
ur, giruarion, AND Bovnparizs or run 
Srvzau rt PROVINCES.) n 


. G5 Nen Kits 
el een 5 49 and 54 North latitude. 
85 i 7 2 and 7 Eaſt longitude. 2 
punded by the German ſea on the North ; by Germany 
in and France South; and by the Britiſh channel 


the ſake of perſpicuity, and to avoid repetition, treat 
een Provinces under two great diviſions: Firſt, the 
ich contains the Seven United Provinces, uſually known 
of Holland : Secondly,. the Southern, containing the 
French Netherlands. The United Provinces are, pro» 
p, eight, viz. Holland, Overiſſel, Zealand, Frieſland, 
dningen, Gelderland, and Zutphen ; but the two lat- 
Inly one ſovereignty, they generally go by the name of 
ee N 2 


TION AND Exrzur OF THB UniTzD PrOvISCES. 
1 5 F : | , " * 
es. BS B82 7 Degrees. 


150 be 1 „ 1 4 4 
| * $1 and 54 North latitude. 
= Wee ; 3 and 7 Eaſt longitude. 


ame. 


ing is the moſt ſatisfactory account we meet with of 
tical diviſion, including the Texel and other iſlands. 


Square] © T Z 
"IA > -»- þ: Chief cities. 


I,go0| 86 50 [Deventer 7 . 
bs. — N. Fl 5243. 
1, Soo] 84 | s [AMSTERDAM 3x. Lon. 5-4. 


1 . 986 50 40 Nime guen 
10 44 | 34 Levwarden 

3 Zurphen 

: x Groningen 

| 4q4 42 Lanes | 

d other iſlands | xx 6 as a 


* * — — 


"Ib 


me this ng molly e wp; > a 
. n 


to Weſt, falls into the ſea oppoſite to England. 


Oſter Scheld; the firſt ſeparating Flanders from Zeal 


| other running North Bergen-op-Zoom, and aft 
| derween the Lands of eland and Schowen, falk i 
OW, 


f Overyſſel, and falls in the Zuider ſea. Beſides whis 
 numberleſs canals. There are ſew harbours in the Unite! 


| 22 though it be one of the greateſt ports in Europe, 
n fo ſhallow F 


is a diſadvantage to their foreign traffic, but very nec 
_ ſame parallel, yet their ſummers are hotter. - The me 
air cauſes metals to ruſt, and wood to mond, mores 
notice of. The neighbouring ſea ſalt-marſhes and bogr 
_ eaſes are chiefly the ſcurvy and gout, and they ag 


; Cheeſe, but their country produces but little corn: hows 
the greateſt plenty of corn, as well as the produce of ew 


here cheaper than in the countries where they 1 
ter, cheeſe, fiſh, and wild fowl, are all that che com 
ſords. They have ao timber growing, and yet 


„ | 55 | e 2 2 g 
„N mM Ern EAA 
Rivers.) 1. The Rhine ſerm itſelf into three braet 

this country, called the Waal, the Lech, and 
aal and the Lech join the 2. Meaſe, which, rum 


0 & The Eſſel runs North, and falls into the Zuiderk 
Tube Rhine anciently ran its ene channel by Utrecht 


4. The Scheld riſes in Picardy, and runs M. E 
Tournay, Ghent, and Antwerp, below which city it | 
two bratiches, the one called the Weſtern Scheld, ad 


5. The Veckt runs from Eaſt to Welt throngh they 


the beſt are Rotterdam, Helvoetſluys, and Fluſhing; a 
water, chat loaded ſhips cannot enter f. 
Air.] The air of theſe provinces is very thick and fory 


is purified by the froſt ia winter, when the Falt winduk 
for about four months; then their harbours are from 


health. The winter is much colder than with us, who he 


country; which is the reaſon of their ual rubbing 
ing, and the brightneſs and cleanlineſs in their houſes, by 


country to be very unhealthfu) in Spring and Autumn 


lignant fevers in dry Summers z an old man is ſeldom 
country; both men and women ſoon grow-corpulentz 8 
ſhorten their lives by ſpiritous liquors; another reaſon 
Rate of health may be their uſing no manner of S 
horſeback, or on foot, for they go from one town to 
covered boat, in which they are ? ſenſible of any oy 
Soil and Produce.] As to the ſoil, they have made wal 
bogs good meadows, by draining them; and their as 
they buy lean in the North of Germany and Denmark, | 
prodigious bulk; they mate à great quantity of goed 


almoſt, that is to be met with any where: the United Fn 
the grand magazine of Europe i goods may be frequenly 


Tf 
F 


* 


1 7h R L A* 


8. 
e be purchaſed, cheaper berd ny where, 


ec than 
Eng bat turf.z moſt of their coals receive 


ſ 


xe of a larger ſiae than in any nation o 
& build and batch, on their chimneys, and they will not 
to. be detroyed the Rorks leave the country about the 


they have neither herrings nor oyſters on their coaſts. 


xe perhaps the belt peopled of any ſpot of the ſame ex · 
world, They contain, according to the beſt accounts, 


beides the 25 towns, and the people in what is called the 
le Generality, or conquered countries and towns of other 
Netherlands. T be manners, habits, and even the minds 
(for fo the inhabitants of the United Provinces are 
general) ſeem to be farmed by their fituation, and to ariſe 
natural wants. Their country, which is preſerved by 
id dykes, is a perpetual incentive ta labour, and the arti- 
ws with which it is every where interſected, mult be kept 
repair. Even, what may be called their natural commo- 
ve butter and cheeſe, are produced by a conſlant attention 
jus parts of life, Their principal food they earn out of the 
ir herring fiſheries, for they diſpoſe of their moſt valuable 
6 Laglith, and other nations, for the ſake of gain. Their 
jeagerature of the climate incline them to phlegmatic, flow 
doth of body and mind; and yet they are irraſcible, e- 
I heated with liquor. Evengtheir virtues are owing to their 
mh regard to every object that does not immediately eon 
own intereſts; ſor in all other reſyects they are quiet 
ud peaceable ſubjects. Their attention to the — wg 
of their country is owing te the ſame prin- 
they were never known to effect a change of government 
they thought theraſelves on the brink, of perdition. 
Wore of the Dutch becomes warm and active when. they find 
weſt at ſtake, witneſe their ſea wars with. England, and 
Their boors, though ſlow. of undesſtanding, are manage- 
ſir means. Their ſeamen are a plain, blunt, but vou 


ſpirit and affection for each other. Their tradefmer are 
U very honeſt in all their dealings: and they ſeldom. uſe 
6 than are neceſſary. about their buſineſs, Smoaking to- 
died by old and young of bord ſexes z and as they are 
ag upon ways and means of getting money, no peo · 
0 wſociable. Theugh a2 Dutchman, of low rank, when 


1 


ber bring T ; | 
ei tar! they burn chiefly in loves, and à fire is ſeldom 
14,76 HEY Qi | ein 12. e 


Here are the fame. animals as in ; their horſes 
| ion 
© have alſo wild. boars and wolves, and multitudes of 


Avauk with their young, and return the February fol- 
| _ fifh. are 8 ours, only it is ob- 


„ Mannerr, Cuſlans, and Diverſions.) The Seven United 


ad towns, 1400 villages, and aboat two millions of inha - 


 ill-mannered fort of people, and appear to be inſenſible 


bgulty of every ** brutality ; and though they — 
V3 ; 


is M ET H E A I A 9 


they are in general quiet and inoffenſive'in their own© 
| exhibits but few inſtances of murder, tapine, theft, or . 
do habitual tippling and drinking charged upon both ſem 


- are not airy enough for joy, or any unuſual Rrains'ofy 
mour, nor warm enough for love; ſo that the fofter pal 


| chanical affestion, ariling from intereſt; conveniency; u 


Dutch are certainly the moſt expert of any people; t th 
I wil, nor does it enter into the heads of this ſagaci 


to no purpoſe ; and the report of it diſcredits a man a 


| ſufficiency; and where fewer failures or bankruptcies & 
in their natural indifference as $0 the warmer paſſions 
Iuxuries of Engliſh and French dreſſing and hving j and 

ol any other part of Europe in their table, buildings, fu 


Engliſh, who ſeem to have borrowed from them the nA 
drinking booths, ſkittle-and other 13 ſmall pie 


. oddities of the women i all which, added to the nature! 
and clumſineſs of their perſons, gave them a very grows 


"4 
in icular the ſeafaring peo W 
, ” . . * of a A f = | N * *TT% : - > 
- 4 . «© » * 
1 . , * * 


* 


been known to exerciſe the moſt dreadful inhomanxit 
abroad, where they thought themfelves free from d 


ing in a great meaſure to the nature of their ſoil and « 


8 11 appetites and paſſions ſeem to run lower and 
in other countries, that of avarice'exc - vil 


natives of this country; and love itſelf is little better 

talked of ſometimes among the young men, but as a thin -" 

heard of rather than felt, and as a diſcourſe: that be 

ther than affects them. * ann 
In whatever relates to the management of pecuniary 


— of acquiring wealth, they unite the no leſs nee 
eſerving it. Every man ſpends leſs than his income; be 


that the common courſe of expence ſhould equal the 
when this happens, they think at leaſt that they have livel 


much as any vicious or prodigal extravagance does 
tries. No country, therefore, can vie with theirs iu the 
thoſe inhabitants, whoſe lot, if not riches, is at least . 
all theſe particulars, the women exactiy reſemble the met, 


traders and mechanics however, begin now to approxia 


lity and high magiſtrates, who have retired from trade 


——_ 


equipages. | 
'The diverſions of the Dutch differ not much from! 


of 


ter, which form the amuſements of the meddling ranks 
tion their hand-organs, and other muſical -inventions. ! 
the beſt ſkaters upon the ice in the world. It is amanugt 
crouds in a hard froſt upon the ice, and the great den 
men and women (ſome of the latter 1 baſket d 
other country ware, upon their heads to market] in da 
or rather flying, with inconceivable velocity. * 


Drafi] Their dreſs ſormeriy was noted for the langs| 
the men; and the jerkins, plain mobbs, ſhort pettisoaim 


ance. Theſe dreſſes now prevail only among the lower't 


1 


Ar 


azETHERLANDS wh 
Tye eſtabliſhed. religi on here iũ the Preſbyterian-or Cal · 

————— are admitted into any office or poſt 
nent) excepting the army yet all religions and es 
ud have their ſreſpective meetings or aſſemblies for 
lis, among which the Papiſts and Jews 2 very un- 


8 n 467 \ 
I * : n 


— 


. | . L 
E345 ** * 


145447 A [ | | UI Y | 2 
p The natural language of the United Provinces is Low 
+ is 2 corcupted dialect of the German; but :the-yeople . 
ſpeak Englify and French. Their Lord's prayer uns 
6 Vader, dic in de bemelin zyn : ue, nam worde gobey- 
luinglryt kome : «we wille geſcbiade gelyck in den bemei 2b 
arden, ons dagelicks broot geef ons heedens\ ent vergeeſt onſe 
ahl oak wy ver geeven onſe ſebuldenaaren ane en laat ons neit 
 dingernaer vertoft on van den bogſen. Amen. en n 


x nd barned Mens] 'Erafams und Grotius, who were both 


«4 


e 


S 


n country, ſtand at the head almoſt of learning itſelf, 
e be does of medicine. Haerlem diſputes the invention of 
paci vith the Germans, and the magiſtrates keep two copies of 
. ed, Speculum Satvationir, printed by Koſter in 144% 
nd 4 clegant edition of the claſſies came from the Dutch prefies 


dam, Rotterdam, Utrecht, Leyden, and other towns. 
ch have exceiled in controverſial divinity, which inſinuated 
much into the State, that it had almoſt proved fatal to the 
ut, witneſs the ridiculous diſputes about Arminianiſm, 
I predeſtination, and the like. Beſides Boerhaave, they have 
ed excellent writers in all branches of medicine. Grævius 
ann ſtand at the head of their numerous commentators 

be claſſics. Nothing is more common than their Latin poems 
þ ns; and later times have produced a Van Haaren, who 
ted of ſome poetical abilities, and about the year 1947 pub- 
denn in fayour of liberty, which were admired as rarities 
becauſe their author was a Dutchman. In the other depart» . 
of literature, the Dutch publications are mechanical, and 
lefty from their employments in univerſities, church, or ſtate. 


wjtic } Theſe are Leyden, Utrecht, Groningen, Harder- 
and Francker, wh A . 


= 
— 


err 


Inuties and Curioſities, The prodigious dykes, ſome of 
dra ard Artificial. : which are ſaid to be 17 ells in 
is, mounds, and canals, conſtructed by the Dutch to pre- 
ber country from thoſe. dreadful inundations by which it for- 
kffered ſo much, are ſtupendous, and hardly to be equalled. 
quarry 8 Meaſtricht, under a hill, is worked * A — 
mueous palace, fu d by pillers twenty feet high. The 
wut of Amſterdam is — building of that kind in 
uo: it ſtands upon 1 3,659 large piles, driyen into the ground: 
| wide is equally convenient and magnificent. Several mu- 
N Try; antiquities and curioſities, artificial and natural, 
bund ia Holland and the other provinces, 8 


— — 


No 5 6f a man. Two Egy 


* N — . 


+544 WKY 


* g 
* 


* 


| S commerce, and the grandeur( 
he works, are almoſt beyond deſcription. In this, and 
cies of the United. Provinces, the beauty of the canals, 
under trees planted on their borders; ure admirable; but 
wee are (truck wich the neatnefs und cleanlineſs that is os 
| obſerved within doors. This city, however, labours v 
great diſadvantages, bad air, and the want of freſh who 
ter, which obliges the inhabitants tc preſerve the rain 
. — 2 next to Amſterdam for com 
id itants are computed at. 56,000. The Hs 

but a is the ſtat of government in the United 


— 
reſc oreign and 411 diftind 
ive in it, the abundance and cheapnem of its proviſions, a 


liteneſs of its inhabitants, who are computed to be aden 
i is no place of trade, but it bas been for many" years? 
in the annals of literature for the aecommodations-ofl 

who attend =o univerſities, and the beauty and conven 
their public ſchools. - Saardam, though — ow. 


in perſon, ſerved his apprenticeſhip to and 
X 2s 4 common handicraft. The —— 
to Fruſſia, and the capital city Gelder. 


Mane ng. 1 to town, is by 
1 whi are the e 


is extremely convenient to the inhabitants, and very d 
means of theſe canals an extenſive inland commerce in 1 
ried on through the whole country, but as they commune 
the Rhine and other large rivere, the productions of the 
are conveyed at a ſmall expence into various parts,of Germ 
Auſtrian and French Netherlands. A treckſcait is divide 
| differen apartments, called the roof and the ruim the im 


V7 H EEDCANDS 


mts 


FEEELIS TL IF Ia I 


ſexes, and is the moſt opulent 

Ther capital city in India is Batavia, which is ſuid to en- 
ißcenee, opulence, and 
Viceroys in 
L.it is ſaid the Dutch ſubj 
x dependence on the 


d Holland with an army of 80,000 men, the 

e diſpoſitions to. ſhip themſelves off to their ſettlements in 
Ion their herring and whale fiſherics (the former upon the 
maſt) which they have carried off from the native proprietors; 
ſoch as their 


R 
& in immenſe quantities; their geeat ſugar- 8 
wen, cotton, and filk manufactures; war-bleaching 1 — 


ad fſberies 
e 


Tadiriduak bare not damped the general induſtry of the 


1 


Trading Companies; ] Of theſe, the — iu he Eat · Ia 
wb, having divided ſuty per cent, and ſometimes forty, 


commeree, all the cities of A. 


rated in 1602, by which formerly the Dutch acquired 


rr ¶—— 2 


bbs ſamous univerſity of Leyden; fack-as.a ſhirt made of l 


are conveyed at a ſmall expence into various parts, of Germs 
Auſtrian and French Netherlands. A treckſcait is divided ut 
different apartments, called the roof and the ruim; the firſt ft 


eat, drink, or converſe with people of various nations, drei 


aſtoniſhed when he beholds the effects of an extenſive and flo 


m NR ETHEMAEBANY DA 


of a man. Two Egyptian mummies, being the bodies of tw 
of great antiquity. All the muſcles and tendons of the bun 
curiouſly ſet up, by profeſſor Stalpert Vander -Weil. 


* 


Cities, Towns, and other Edifices, Amſterdam, which 

public and private, | upon piles of wood, is 

to contain 241,000 people, and to be, next to London, 

commercial city in the world; in this refpet, ſome have ey: 
it the preference to London, though I cannot ſee with 

priety. Its conveniencies for commerce, and the 10 

tic works, are almoſt beyond deſcription. In this, and all 

cies of the United Provinces, the beauty of the canals, at 

under trees planted on their borders, are admirable ; but al 

we-are {truck with the neatnefs and cleanlineſs that is ey 

obſerved within doors. This city, however, labours und 

great diſadvantages, bad air, and the want of freſh wholeſ 
ter, which obliges the inhabitants tc preſerve the rain wats 

ſervoirs. Rotterdam is next to Amſterdam for comme 
wealth: its inhabitants are computed at. 56,000. The Hag 
tur a village, is the ſeat of government in the United P 
and is celebrated for the magniſicence and beauty of its by 
the reſort of foreign ambaſſadors and ſtrangers of all diſtinctie 
live ia it, the abundance and cheapnefs of its proviſions, and 
liteneſs of its inhabitants, who are computed to be about e 
it is no place of trade, but it has been for many years note 
emporium of pleaſure and politics. Leyden and Utrecht ar 
in the annals of litcrature for the accommodations of the 
who attend their univerſities, and the beauty and convenie ur 
their public ſchools. Saardam, though a wealthy trading 
mentioned here as the workſhop where Peter the Great, of! 
in perſon, ſerved his apprenticeſhip to ſhip-building, and 
as a common handicraft. The upper part of Gelder land is 
to Pruſſia, and the capital city Gelder. | ace! 


Inland Navigation, Canal, and ? The nſual way of paffi 
Manner of Travelling. town to town, is by « 
boats, called treckſcuits, which are dragged along the 
horſes, on a ſlow uniform trot, ſo that paſſengers. reac! 
ent towns where they are to ſtop, preciſely at the-appointed Wn, 
of time. This method of 2 tho? to ſtrangers rat? 
is extremely convenient to the inhabitants, and very cheap 
means of theſe canals an extenſive inland — is not ol 
ried on through the whole country, but as communica 
the Rhine — other large rivers, the productions of the whol 


tlemen, and the other for common people, who may r 
languages. Near Amſterdam and other large cities a tra or 


co 


xETHERLANDS wy 
the canals are lined for miles together with ele 
— ing feared in the midR of gardens and plea- 
ak inter mixed with figures, buſts, ſtatues, and temples, G. 


oer time in theſe little temples, ſmoaking, reading, or 
{the paſſengers, to whom they appear complaiſant and 


+ end ManufatFeres.] An account of the Dutch eommeree, 
hend that of almoſt all Europe. There is ſcarcely a 
bare that they do not carry on, or a ſtate to which they do 
In this they are aſſiſted by the populonfneſs of their: 

| the cheapneſs of their labour, and, above all, by their wa- 
ae, which, by means of their canals, gives them advan- 
kjond all other nations. The United Provinces are the grand 
1 of Europe; and goods may be purchaſed here ſometimes 
than in the countries where they grow. Their Eaſt-India 
r have had the monopoly of the fine ſpices for more than a 
x years, and is the moſt opulent and powerful of any in the 
Their capital city in India is Batavia, which is faid to ex- 
monificence, opulence, and commerce, all the cities of A- 
j & Viceroys appear in greater ſplendor than the Stadthol- 
nul it is ſaid the Dutch ſubjects in Batavia ſcarcely acknow- 
wy dependence on the mother country. They have other 
ts in India, but none more pleaſant, healthful, or uſeful, 
tht an the Cape of Good-Hope, the grand rendezvous of the 
of all nations, outward or homeward bound. When Lewis 
wded Holland with an army of 80,000 men, the Dutch 
ne diſpoſitions to ſhip themſelves off to their ſettlements in 
b great was their averſion to the French government. Not 
mon their herring and whale fiſheries (the former upon the 
wk) which they have carried off from the native proprietors, 
are! at home in numberleſs branches of trade, ſuch as their 
tobacco pipes, delft-ware, finely refined ſalt ; their oil - 
inch manufactures; their improvements of the raw linen 
Germany; their hemp, and fine paper manufaQures z their 
a and table damaſks ; their ſaw-mills for timber, for ſhipping 
ſts, in immenſe quantities; their geeat ſugar-baking ; their 
molen, cotton, and filk manufaQures wax-bleaching ; lea- 
fling; the great quantity of their coin and ſpecie, affifted 
thanks, moſt eſpecially by that of Amſterdam ; their Eaſt- 
dude; and their general induſtry and frugality. It is greatly 
, however, whether their commerce, navigation, manufac- 
ad fiſheries, are in the fame flouriſhing flate now as they 
ite beginning of this century; and whether the riches and 
individuals have not damped the general induſtry of the 


* Traing Companies. ] Of theſe, the capital is the Eaſt- In- 
Aporated in 1602, by which formerly the Dutch acquired 


[ 


wealth, having divided ſixty per cent, and ſometimes _ 
ut 


—— — — — 2 


DER . raw — — rn 
- 


1 


it is laid by Sir William Temple, to contain the greateſt tree 


|  eaſh is in common payments. Mr Anderſon ſuppoſes, that the 
| bullion, and-pawned jewels in this bank, which is kept in the 1 


nobility, conſtitute the States of the Province of Holland, 


Stadrholder, William Charles Henry Frizo, died the 11th of 


165 W E THE R LAND. 
the year 1660 at preſent the dividends are much reduced; 5 
124 years, the Proprietors, on an A e one year with 
divided ſomewhat above 24 per cent. late as the year 
they divided 15 per dent. but the Dutch Weſt-India compan 
ſame year, divided no more than two and a half per cent 
company was incorporated in 1621“ The bank of uſt 

thought to be inexhauſtibly rich, and is under an excellent direg 


either real or imaginary, that is known any where in the 1 
What may ſeem a paradox is, that this bank is ſo far from Paying 
intereſt, that the money in it is worth ſomewhat more than cu 


of the Stadthouſe, amount to 36 (though others ſay only to 
hs ter. er Co Cr Com 


Conſtitution.] In theſe provinces are a great number of reg 
independent of each other, united for the common defence. 
The States General conſiſt of deputies from every province, 
are uſually about thirty in number; ſome provinces ſend two, 
more; but every province has no more than one voice ; and 
ever reſolution the States General take, muſt be confirmed by « 
province, and by every city and republic in that province, 
it has the force of law. _ I, $7 

The deputies of the eighteen cities, and one repreſentative e 


ſterdam, and every one of thoſe eighteen cities, are ſeparate 
independent republics. In Amſterdam the legiſlative power it 
ged in thirty-ſix ſenators, who continue members of the ſenat 
ife, and when one dies, his place is filled by the ſurvivors z f 
nate alſo ele& the deputies to repreſent the cities in the provin 
Holland. The people have nothing to do, either in the cho 
their repreſentatives, or their magiſtrates z what alteration the 
ſtitution may receive from their late ſtruggles for a Stadtholde 
but uncertain z but the Prince of Orange ſeems to be impon 
either directly, or by his influence, to change both the deputies 
giſtrates, and officers in every province and city; he is Preſids 
the States of every province, though he has not ſo much asak 
vote in the States-General ; but, as he influences the States of 
province to ſend what deputies he pleaſes to the States-Cener 
has in effect the appointing the perſons that conltitute the State 
neral, and may be deemed Sovereign of the United Province 
The Stadtholder had once a. very great power; We ans 
their Stadtholders appointing what towns ſhould ſend deputig 
members to the aſſembly of the States of Holland; but the 
tholderſhip was never hereditary till now. It is obſerved, t 
States paſſed by the firſt Stadtholder's eldeſt ſon, and app 
younger ſon, Prince Maurice, their Stadtholder. And at 
times they have ſuppreſſed the Stadtholderſhip entirely. TÞ 


ber 1751; he was born hereditary Stadtholder of Friefland, ti 


n ET HR ANI AN DA 6 
in ededed Stadtbolder of Gelderland, Zutpheti, and 


Fa the 12th of June 1733; he married Anne, Princeſs 


© + Great Britain, the 14th of March 1733-4, by whom he 
be the Princeſs Caroline, the 17th of February 1742; and 
A William, the preſent Stadtholdet, born the 4th of March 
; This high office was ſettled on his iffve male, and in de- 
vereof on the female iſſue; and their mother the Princeſs is 
ned Regent or Governante, till they come of age reſpective-· 


kt, if the Princeſs marries or dies, the States are to be guar- 


of tae minors. 


t is a Council of State, conſiſting of Deputies from the ſeve⸗ 


winces; to which Holland ſends three; Gelderland, Zealand, 
brecht, two a- piece, and the Provinees of Frieffand and Gro- 
q each of them one. In this eouncil they do not vote by 
wee. as in the States-General, but by 1 and 
deputy preſides by turns, and the Stadtholder, when there is 
u a deciſiye voice in this couneil, where the votes happen to 
ul. This council calculates what tates or forces will be ne- 
| for the current year, and prepares other matters for the de- 
jon of the States-General. In an afſembly of the States 
xarticular province, one diffenting voice prevents their coming 


J The arms of the Seven Provinces are Or, a lion gules; 
pa ſeymetre in one of his paws, and a bundle of ſeven ar- 
a the other, with this motto, Concordia res parv# creſcunt. 


.] Their forces, in time of peace, uſed to be about 40,000, 


þ whereof were in the barrier towns, and paid by the revenues 
i the territories about thoſe towns, granted by the barrier 
1715; The Stadtholder is commander in chief, and has 
um a Field Marſhal General. 1 | 
tion in Europe, except England, can fit out a more ſormi- 
feet of men of war than the Dutch; they have always ſo 
timber prepared for building fhips at Sardam, and all other 
Ws for rigging them, that they can, for many days, build à 
var every day, if they pleaſe ; and no nation is better ſur- 
with ſeamen to man them. | | 

Dutch employ great nambers of foreigners in their ſervice, 
Wy Swiſs and Scots; they durſt not truſt the government en- 


o the natives while they were guilty of ſuch oppreffions; no 


went acts more arbitrarily than the Dutch republics ; they 
* any man to death without bringing him to a trial, as they 
many, if he confeſſes his crime, in which cafe he forfeits 

| of his eſtate, | | | 
ug their taxes, the province of Holland raifes almoſt as 
Ball the reſt, the trade; and conſequently their wealth, be- 
u to that of all the other provinces ; and as the city of Am- 
D 2nd their Eaſt-India uſually influence the province of Hol- 
d Holland has a very great influence on the reſt of the pro- 
nd in a manner, act the part of Sovereigns when there is 


n 
* 


— — — — — — - * 
e 


* 
— 


— — — 
* 2 .- „ — 


: 
- 


1062 NETHERLANDS 
no Stadtholder, and for that reaſon uſually - oppoſe the c 
Stadtholder. K Pari 1 zr : "FTP a) : . 


ü he, cee 2 MC en, 
Taxe. ] The States uſually raiſe between two and threes 
-angually, by an almoſt general exciſe, 4. land- tax, poll t 
hearth-money; but every province and city may vary in th 
ner, and levy their reſpective quotas of taxes as they ſee f 
duties on goods and merchandize are exceeding low; Hol 
Eind of tree port, which is the ſource. of their vaſt traffic. 
_ wealthieſt merchants therefore pay little more towards the 
.of the government than the common people. The appreſl 
the great men, in tax ing their ſubjects, gave riſe tothe late in 
tions and alteration in their conſtitution: Notwithſtanding t 
Dutch taxes are heavier than in moſt nations, yet every pro 
greatly in. debt, it is ſaid; and, as this muſt affect their pub 
dit, there are immenſe ſums lodged in the Engliſt funds. 


1 


Curioſities.] Among their curioſities may be reekoned their 
(made to protect them againſt the ſea and land · floods, wt 
ſeventeen ells thick. Theſe dykes have been broken by the 
of the waters ſeveral times, and great part of the country oy 
ed; whereby whole villages have been deſtroyed, and many 
ſands of men and cattle ſwept away: And ſome parts of 
have been gulled ſo deep by the force of the waters, as to be 
verably loſt. . Among other curioſities may be reckoned t! 
thouſe at Amſterdam, built on many thouſands of timber pil 
ed of whole trees, and driven into their ſoft ground, ſome 
depth of near 6p feet: This building is, by ſome, eſteemed 
of its kind in Europe; as well for its magnitude and magnif 
as for the convenience and number of its apartments. Th 
alſo many libraries and muſeums. of curioſities in ſeveral 
particularly in the univerſity of Leyden | 
There is perhaps no country in the world, for its fize, { 
lous as the Seven United Provinces: According to the belt act 
it contains above 1500 cities, towns, and. villages, and ups 
two millions of inhabitants; which, as they are chiefly ſup 
by trade and commerce, produces a degree of induſtry not 
met with in other places: And hence ariſes. that attention 
intereſt, whereby the Dutch have become formidable. on ſe 
caſions in their wars. | 
Their cities and towus are generally neatly laid out, has 
nals in the chief ſtreets, and walks under trees planted on ti 
of the canals: As there is a great convenience of water c 
there are but few. or no carts. uſed; and conſequentiy a great 
of neatneſs preſerved in their towns. 


DUTCH Gorp-Coins 


Ducat of Holland — 
| DUTCH SvE Coins: 


Ducatoon of Holland _—_—_ 
Puttagon, or Rix dollar of Holland ———— — 


— — 


a 


1E T H * * LANDS 


ler . eee 3 a Nat OF 
pi ſchelling piece of Zealand, or piece of 60 Tivers 0 1 A a 

ale of Holland ——— 9 3 7 
Lhelling 3s 4 baſe coin not worth « * bug as pence. 


DU TC H Cor PER, oy 
Orke, the fourth part of a ſtiver or penny. e 
— will be found ; in the deſcription of the Auſtrian * 


' rn * 


—— — mens : = 
ISTRIAN axv FRENCH NETHERLANDS. 


SITUATION AND EXTENT. 
Miles. . Degrees. 


Length 2co _. {49 and 332 North latitnde, 
Breadth - between + and 7 Eaſt kk 5 


2 ROUNDED by the United Provinces on the North N 
by Germany, Eaſt; by Lorrain, Champaign, and 
„y in France, South; and dy another part of Picardy, and 
li Channel, Weſt. 
this country belongs to three different Powers, the Auſtrians, 
, and Dutch, we ſhall be more particular in diſtinguiſhing 
winces and towns belonging to each ſtate. 
1, Province of B RAB ANT. 
5 N. 
hach Drabant ü 
Grave, N. E. | 
Lillo 
Steenbergen N. W. 
MVERP; and 3. MALINES, are provinces independent 
"ant, Ws furrouaded by it, and ſubject to the houle of 
lu. 


Subdiviſions. Chief towns. 
| / Boiſleduc 

Breda 

Hergen -· op Zoom 

Maeſtricht, S. E. 

[ Bavsstrs, E. lon. 4 * 6 min. 

N. lat. 50 · 50. . 225 
Louvain 
Vilvorden 
1 Landen 


lillian Brabant=— + 


in the middle, 


4. W LIMBURG, 8. E. = 
| } "Limburg, ſubject to Auſtria, * 


' Dalem 
ſubject to tiie 
Fauquemont, of Bren 
X 2 


Val kenburg 
5. Province 


L i " 


10. „e 


. - Proyinge uf LVXEM 
* Subdiviſions. Re 8 


Auen Luxemburg _ ? 19 wry | he IO burg Faith 
| Fenn Luxemburg — t | Thioavins 1 
Montmedy 8 E. 


6. Province of N N 3 
Set towns _ +7 cred Namur, on the gambre ant 
ir Charleroy on the dambgt 

7. dene of Af F 


- Subdiviſions. | 
Sutra Hainault — | 


Fae Fall | == 


E 8. Province of * CAMBRESIS. 

to ambray, E. of Arras, 
Pubzes Ferres gt f 7 Creyecour, 8. of Cam 

9. Province of ARTOIS. 
Arras, 8. W. . ä 
| Se Omer, E. of Be . 

abfied to Frar | Aire, 8. Omer 
ot 18er fe France dent, > St Venant, E. of Aire 
| - Bethune, 8. E. of Aire 
Jl Terouen, 8. of gt Omer 


10. Province of FLANDERS. 
| . Sluys, N 
uch Fl ad | Axel, N. 
Pu ee r Halli, N. 
N Sas van Ghent, N. 


2 | 4 Ghent, on the Scheldt 
9 Bruges of 
| Oſtend N. W. neart 
| 4 1 » Þ 


Anfizian Flanders —— . Qudenard on the Se 
. "no "fey. 33 Courtray ? 0am a 
D 


ixmude lo 
* N. of Liſle Ine 
'' | - Tournay on the Scheld | 


I Menin on the Lis. 
| Þ Liſſe, W. of Tournay 
Dunkirk, on the coalt 


8285 (4 | Mardike, W. of Duaki brab; 
St Amand, N. of Vale! 
Gravelin, E. of Calais. 


18 Iren 
French Flanders > « Douay, W. of Arras 


F E T HE RL AN D 8. 187 
Sul; and Produre.] The air of Brabant, and upon the coaſt ' 
E's is bad; that in the interior parts is more healthful, and 
Caſons more ſettled, both in Winter and Summer, than they 
u England. The ſoil and its produce are rich, eſpecially in 
and fruits. They bave abundance” of paſture; and Flanders 

12; been reckoned the” granary of France and Germany, and 
vines of England. The -moſt barren. parts for corn, rear far 
ble crops of flax, which is here cultivated to great perſection. 
«the whole, the Auſtrian Netherlands, by the culture, com- 
and induſtry of the inhabitants, was formerly the richeſt - 
| nol beautiful ſpot in Europe, whether we re the variety: 
« manufactures, the magnificence and riches of its cities, the a- 

u of its roads and villages, and the fertility of its land. If it 
allen off in later times, it is owing partly to the neglect of its 
rament, but chiefly to its vicinity to England and Holland ; 
i is fill a moſt deſirable and pleaſant country. There are few 
0 mountains in the Netherlands: Flanders is a flat conntry, 
dy a fingle hill in it. Brabant, and the reſt of the provinces, 

of little hills and vallies, woods, incloſed grounds, and cham- 

| hields, | | | 


very and Canals.) The chief riyers are the Maeſe, Sambre, 
mer, Dyle, Nethe, Geet, Sanne, Ruppel, Scheld, Lis, Scarpe, 
ple, and Dender. The principal canals are thoſe of Bruſſels, 
2 and Oſtend. 


[tal and Minerals.) Mines of iron, copper, lead, and brim- 
ve found in Luxemburgh, Limburg, and Liege, as are ſome 
le quarries ; and in the province of Namur there are coal pits, 
a ſpecies of bituminous fat earth proper for fuel, with great 
ty of foſſile nitre. 


anfatures and Traffic.) Their principal manufactures conſiſt 
& lawns, cambric, lace, and tapeſtry, with which they carry on 
n advantageous traffic, eſpecially with England, from whence 
— they receive a balance of half a million annually in 
of peace, 


ment.] The Empreſs Queen is Sovereign of the Auſtrian 
Merlands ; and in her, or her viceroy, and the convention of 
lates of the reſpective provinces, is the legiſlative power in 
A hbaged. Here new laws are enacted, and by their aſſent alone 
Mey levied, and the whole aſſembly muſt be unanimous in paſ- 
ab an at, The aſſembly, or parliament of each province con- 
. Of the biſhops, abbots, and dignified clergy. 2. The no- 
fad gentry; and, 3. The deputies or repreſentatives of their 
* Ons. Theſe meet at Bruſſels, except thoſe of Luxemburg 
elders ; who, by their ancient privileges, cannot be ſam- 
* ont of their reſpective provinces, any more than the States 
aant : Neither do the States of the ſeveral provinces, which 
* Brufſels, aſſemble in one houſe, but each of them apart, and 
Qt laws for their reſpective countries, 
a | Beſides 


w 4 . 
* ; - 
- - J 
= 


=—_ 
W 


— 


168 N E T HE R LAND & 

the capital of Flanders, and celebrated ſor its linen and wool, 
nufactures, contain the circuit of ten miles, but now under 
and great part of it in a manner void. Bruges, formerly 5 
ſor ãts trade and manufactures, but above af for its fine cam 
now.dwindled-to an inconfiderable place. Oſtend is now 26 
than a convenient harbour for: traders; and Y pres, a Rirong g 
ſon town. The ſame may be ſaid-ot Charleroy and Namur, y 
Iye in the Auſtrian Hainault. pen 1191 7. 

\ Louvain, the capital of the: Auſtrian Brabant, inſiead of its 
tiſhing manuſactories and places of trade, now contains pretty 
dens, walks, and arbours. Bruſſels retaing ſomewhat of its an 
manufaQories ; and being the reſidence of the governor ot vig 
of the Auſtrian Netherlands, it is a populous, lively place. 
twerp, once the emporium of the European continent, is no 
duced to be a tapeſtry and thread lace-ſhop; with the houſes of 
bankers, jewelers, and painters adjoining. One of the firſt en 
of the Dutch, ſoon after they threw off the Spaniſh yoke, 
ruin at once the commerce of Antwerp, by ing veſſels, lot 
with ſtone, in the mouth of the Scheldz thus ſhutting up for 
the entrance of that river to thips of burden. This was ther 
cruel, as the people of Antwerp had been their friends and 
ſufferers in the cauſe of liberty. MENS + 

It may be obſerved here, that every gentleman's houſe is a 
or chateau; and that there are more ſtrong towns in the Netherl 
than in all the reſt of Europe; but fince' the decline of their t 
by the riſe of the Engliſh and Dutch, theſe towns are cc 
diminiſhed in fize, and whole ſtreets, particularly in Antwerp, 
in appearance uninhabited. In the Netherlands, proviſions a 
tremely good and cheap, A ſtranger may dine in Bruſſels on 
or * diſhes of meat for leſs than a/ſhilling Engliſh. T 
is ſafe, reaſonable, and delightful, in this luxurious country, 
roads are generally a broad cauſeway; and run for ſome miles 
28 line, till they terminate with the view of ſome noble 

ings. 


Commerce and Manufa@ures.) The chief manufaures of the F 
and Auſtrian Netherlands, are their beautiful linens and laces 
which, notwithſtanding the boaſted improvements of their n 
bours, they are yet unrivalled, particularly im that ſpecies c 
cambrics, from Cambray, the chief place of its manufacture. 
manufactures form the principal article of their commerce. 


Conſtitution and Government.] The Auſtrian Netherlands 
conſidered as a circle of the empire, of which the arehducal h 
as being ſovereign of the whole, is the ſole director and ſumm 
prince. This circle contributes its ſhare to the impoſts of the 
pire, and fends an envoy to the diet, but is not ſubje& to the 
catories of the empire. It is under a governor-general, app" 
by the court of Vienna, who, at preſent, is his Serene Hig 
Prince Charles of Lorrain, brother to the late, and uncle to the 
ſent Emperor. The face of an aſſembly, or parliament, ior 
province, is ſtill k-pt up, and conſis of the clergys * 


- 
7 v3 . 


1E HER LANA th 

% ol towns, who meet at Bruſſels. | Each. province claim 

ul privileges, but they are of very little effect; and the go - 
{om or never finds any reſiſtance to the will of his eoùrt, 


ince has a particular governor, ſùbject to the regent; and 
«ate here decided according to the civil and canon la. 


e W e . JEANS ; Yo: 291819712 DItE 5 « I 
b is the trade of the Auſtrian Flanders now reduced, that 
ae ſaid not to defray the expence of their government. The 
Netherlands bring in a conſiderable revenue to the crown. 


' s - | 71; | ve 262 
dar Strength. ] The troops maintained here by the Empreſs | 
are chiefly employed in the frontier garriſons. Though by 

ner treaty, the Auſtrians were obliged to maintain three - 
of thoſe garriſons, and the Dutch two, yet both of them are 
fly 'deficient' in their quotas, the whole requiring at leaſt 


o wen, and in time of war above 10,000 more. 8 f 
] The arms of Flanders are Or, a lion ſable and languid 
8iG4pric..] Cambray, Maline, or Mechlin. 
ict] Ghent, Bruges, Antwerp, Arras, Ypres, Tourna 3 
ers, Namur, and Ruremonde. | | 


mrjitiec.] Louvain, Douay, and St Omers. 


*] The German, Dutch, and French eoins are current kerez 


,] The Seventeen Provinces, and that part of Germany 
dhes Welt of the Rhine, was called Belgicz Galliz by the Ro- 
Upon the decline of that empire, the Goths, and other 
tern people, poſſeſſed themſelves of theſe provinces firſt, as 
kaſſed through them in their way to France, and other parts 
c Koman empire; and after being erected into ſmall govern- 
the heads of which were deſpotic within their own dominions, 
rere [wallowed up by the houſe of Burgundy. The Emperor 
ſs V. the heir of that family; ranked them as a part of the 
under the title of the circle of Burgundy. The tyranny of 
"Philip, who ſucceeded to the throne of Spain, made the in- 
Ws attempt to throw off his yoke, which occaſioned a general 
10a, The Counts Hoorn, Egmont, and the prince of O- 
?ppcaring at the head of it, and Luther's reformation gain- 
Frand about the ſame time in the Netherlands, his diſciples 
de malecontents. Whereupon king Philip introduced a kind 
undon, in order to ſuppreſs them, and many thonſands were 
"Cath by that court, beſides thoſe that periſhed by the ſword. 
Hoorn and Count Egmont were taken and beheaded; but 
Pace of Orange, whom they elected to be their Stadtholder, 
4 no Holland, that and the adjacent'provinces entered into 
I {or their mutual defence, at Utrecht, in the year 1579. 
Y And 


Th 


- 146 NETHERLAND ol 
And though theſe revolters at firſt were ſo deſpicable a8 
ed beggars by their tyrants, their! perſtveranee 
ſuch, under the prince of Orange, and the -afliftance a 
by Queen Eliſabeth, both in troops and money; that thay 
crown of Spain at laſt to declare them a free ab 
1609 ; and afterwards they were acknowledged by a 
an independent State, under the title of The United | 
the houſe of Auſtria, which for ſome ages ruled ver 
Spain, and part of Italy, with which they afterwards 
carry on bloody wars, was become no longer formidables 
the public jealonſy was directed againſt that of Bourbon; 
favoured by the government of Holland, who lad ail 
prince of Orange of the Stadtholderſhip, the ſpirit. of the 
ſuch, that they revived it in the perſon of the prince, wil 
terwards William III. King of Great Britain ; and duriny 
and that of Queen Anne, they were principals; in 
deracy againſt Lewis XIV. King of France, By. their ke: 
England, under Cromwell, and in. the reign of Charles 
quired the reputation of a formidable naval power 3 but 
already mentioned, their military virtue is on the decline 
The Spaniards remained poſſeſſed of the other Ten Pram 
as they are termed, the Low Countries, until the Dubs 
borough, general of the Allies, gained the memorable hn 
milies, in the year 1706. After which, Bruſſels, 'the "nn 
reat part of theſe provinces, acknowledged Charles VE 
1 of Germany, their ſovereign ; and his daughter 
preſs Queen, remained poſſeſſed of them until the war oF 
the French made an entire conqueſt of them, except p 
vince of Luxemburg; and the places retained by then 
the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle in the year 1748, may be 
preceding general table of diviſions. - + 
; | 1 »f 


$ X 4 
iN 


—— — — 34 — <————  — y  —_C————C— — — — 


» * 
—__ 


| P p (i N 

| 8 bounded on the North by the German 
Boundaries.) | mark, and the Baltic ſea. _, . 
On the South by Switzerland and the Alps. + . » 8 


On the Ealt by Poland, Bohemia, and Hungary. 
And on the Welt by the territories of France and the wt 


Situation and Extent.) It is ſituated between the 
45 and 55 degrees North, extending about 600 miles.” 
And between the longitudes of 5 and 19 degrees Eaſty cm 
about 500 miles. | | br 
This country is divided into nine portions; called c 
in the North, three in the South, and three in the middle | 


— 
” \ 


— 
LO 1 * 4 
* = 
A Hoo 
* s + * 
1 {$2344 41 
ries e 


— 
18 FS + , 


% 


LET REAL. AN PDS. 


— — 


4271 
circles. | e Circles. "Southern circles. | 
oor. | 4 "+ Upin.R Rhine. J. Auſtria. = 
. 1 Lower Rhine. | 8. Bavaria. 
ahalia. | 6. Franconia. | Swabia. | . 


WLUPPER SAXONY: CIRCLE, 


Pn [.. 


| Subdiviſions. "(Ti Pe 1 — to; Chi Chief to downs · ; 


Pr. Pomerani 
Sw. Pomerani 


Sweden alſund 
W | | 


>'e 


= [CAlemark = 
ET | ruſſia J Porſdamr: 
* Newark ) Francfo 
Saxony Duchy Cuſtrinr 
He arq. | E El. Saxo. Wittenburg 
Miſnia rq- | S EI. Saxo. S Bantzen 
N { Gore 
| | Dreſden 
| | El. Saxo. | Miſein 
angd.] W E Meat: Erfurt 
e Meiningen [Duchy] Duke Meiningen 
Saxe Zeits Duchy] [Duke *[Zeits | 
Saxe Altenberg [Duchy $ E Duke Altenberg 
4 Saxe Weimar Duchy] W Duke Weimar 
Saxe Gotha Duchy] W {Duke 
axe Eiſnach uchy W|Duke 
Saxe Saalſield uchy Duke 
chwartſburg County W Count 
Belchilgen unty} N Count 
Mansfield ounty N Count 
Duchy] Mid Pruſſia 
axe Naumburg Duchy Duke 
Stolber ounty]N W 
IHobenſtein ounty] W 
D 
Anhalt Princ. | N Prince 
| | 
4 5 Hall — W 
a oigtland 8 ö 
Duchy! Mid } 


3 
* 


bi, 


- - 
. 
_ - 
: wa — 
= 


en 


* 


£ & /E Rt 1 4 VN 1. | 
1 LOWER 8$AXONY err 


_Divifions _| Subdiriſons: | Fidle.-1Pok 
E | | Holſtein ” Bes . — 
Holſtein D irmarſh e W Denma. dorp 
Gottorp Stor maria N enma. 
233 nary Sov, St. tate. 
| 1 Wagerland FAA 5 | | | 
| awenbur El. | 
"A, AG] Dranse uchy Mid. 3 Deen 
Brunſwie IJ Wolfembuttle Duchy Mid... 
| Wen, Rheinſtein (County 8. Duke 
_Blachenberg County] | 
alenburg Duchy | 
rubbenhagen Duchy Il. Han 
ottingen p14 
Dell Duchy : 
ell Duchy | | 
Bremen Docky ju Ean. 
e 2 Bie * 
. Swerin uchy uke 
Mecklenburg ? Gutrow Duchy N Duke 
ildeſheim Biſhop. Mid. Biſhop. |Hildeſhe 
1 Duchy] IR. of 
| Halberſtat Duchy Pruſſia |? Halbe 
III WESTPHALIA TTT. 
Diviſions. Subdiviſions, | Title | ©. 1$ubj. td Chief 
= M Eaſt Frieſſand d County IEK. mben, 
Oldenburg {County + [King of | (Olde 
North Delmenhurſt I IDenm. tr 0 
of Hoye Elect of 
Diepholt Hanov, 
" Munſter Biſhop. | Biſhop 
Paderborn | Biſhop. Biſhop 
Oſnaburg Biſhop. | Biſhop 
I Lippe County Count 
Weſtern J Minden Duchy King of 
| Ravenſberg County Pruflia 
Weſtphalia | Duchy E. Colog 
Tecklenburg County Count 
Ritberg County Count 
| Schawenburg County Count |! 
Cle ves Duchy K Pruſſi 
7 Duchy E!. Pala- 
Juliers Duchy tine 
* Middle J Mark County] K. Pruli|H 
Liege Biſhop. Biſhop [Liege 
| Huy 
Bentheim County El. Han. Benthe 
Steinfort County [Count (Stein 


: : 
-? 


[| 


1 


% | Sobdiviſions., | Title. 
eie Cailel [Land 20 
leſſe Marparg Landgr.] N. 
Heſſe Darmſtadt Landgr. 8 
Helſe Homburg Princip. 
Heſſe Rhine field Princip. 
Heſſe Wanfried Princip. 
Dillenburg County 
Diets County 
Hadamar County 
Kerburg County 
Siegen County 
3 ldſtein County | 
Z Weilburg |County | 
Wilhaden County 
Bielſteid County 
Otweiler County 
| Uſingen County 
1&errit0 
Erpach County 
Spire Biſhopr, 
Deuxpoints Duchy 
Catzenelbogen County 
Waldec ounty | 
. Solms ounty 
| Hanan ounty 
ef Eyſenberg County 
ben, Soyn ounty N 
dei Wied ounty 
Wetgenſtein ounty 
Hatz field County 
Weſterberg ounty 
Fulde Abby 
Hirchfield County 


e 8 RK M A N Þ» 


P. 


TT, OY nes 2 


dai dn d αο n d c 2 


j—— 


inn” 


Bielſtein 
Otweiler 
Uſingen 
dv. late | Francfort, Imp, 
Own count |Erpach 
Sov, ſtate | Spire, Imp. 


Own duke Ee 


Heſſe Caſſel Catzenelbogen 


Own count Waldec 


' . Own count — 


Heſſe Caſſel Hanau 
Own count Eyſenberg 


Dv count Sayn 


Own count Wied 

Own count Wetgenſtein 
Owg count Hatafield 
Own count |Weſterberg 


| 
S E[Ovn abbot Fulde 


bn. | Subdiviſions. | Title. 

. ſot the 

Rhine 
Cologn Elector 

Mentz Elector 

I briers Elector 
 Julic Worms Biſhopr. 
Aix zimmerim Duchy 
lam Khinegraveſtein County 
iege M- leurs County 
luy Veldents ounty 
enth« Ipanheim ounty 
teink Leymingen County 


: 


Heſſe Caſſel |Hirchfield 


Heidelburg 
Philipſburg 
{Manheim 
Frankendal _ 
Own ele&or|Cologn, Bonn. 
Own electorſMentz 
Aſchaffenburg 


Own elector Triers 
Sov. ſtate 
Own duke Simmerin 
Own count |Khingraveſtein 
Pruſſia Meurs 

E. Palatine Veldents 

E. Palatine |Crentznach 


E. Palatine Leymingen 


N FRANGONIASCTROLE 
- "Diviſions... N ubj 


111 


Warburg * 


Aichſtat © 
Cullenbach . 


Y 
Burgravate of r 8. E. an n 
State 
Territory of the Great Maſter of the T. Teutonic Or- 
der, Mergentheim, 8. W. 


Diviſion. Title. Poſi. Subject to | Chief u 
Reineck Wi Reineck 
Bareith E Own Margr|Bareith | 
Papenheim . Own Coun n 
Wertheim | 
Caffſel © Mia 
Sciwartzenburg, Own on — ; 
Holach | 18 


VII. AUSTRIA Leit 
The whole Cirele belongs to the Empreſs- Queen of Hung 
Diviſions. | Subdiviſions | Chief towns. 


| Archduchy of Auſtria 


Vienna, Lints Ens 
| tiria and Cilley Gratz, Cilly 
Duchies of orinthia a Lavemund, 


arniola auback, Zerknits, Triel 
. Veits 
bY Goritia its 
County of Tyrol Infpruck ) On the 7 
. Brixen Brixen Italy and 
A of Trent Trent 5 land. 
VIII. BAVARIA CIRCLE. 
Subdiviſions. Title. W to Chief te 
1 F 5 Munich 
Bavaria on the adſhnt . , 
Danube Duchy Elector of Bavaria |Ingolditat . ; 
Co Donawert, . * 
Bavaria Palatinate Elector of Bavaria Amberg 14 
Freiſſingen Own Biſhop reiſſingen . 1 
Paſſau Biſhopric wn Biſhop Paſſau bY 
Neuberg Duchy Elector Palatine Neuberg JT 
Saltſburgh Archbiſhopric Own Archbiſhop |Saltſburgh I fy 


IX, 8 


o ER M AN YL 175 
Is. SWABIA CIRCLE. 


Due of wur- Stutguard 
Duchy | temburg Stut- | Tubingen 
ice M; 
e e 
Marquiſate ö 
Marquiſate | Own Margrave Baden Weiler 
* 70 | 2 r, 
Biſhopric | Own Biſhop ' Hokſtet 
Territory Sovereign ſtate, Ulm. Imp. 
Biſhopric | Own Biſhop | Conſtance 3 
Principality | Own Prince Mindelheim 
Principality | Own Prince Furſtenburg 
Principality | Own Prince Hohenzollern 
County ay Oeting 1 
County 4 4 | Koningſeck 
County | | Gemund  _ 
| Barony 1 Waldburg 
n Limpurg 
Abby ; Kempten, Imp. 
Abby 4. 3 Buchaw, Imp. 
Abby | f Lindaw, Imp. 
1 Nordlingen 
al cities, or ſovereign ſtates Memmingen 
| Rotwel, Cc. 
Black Foreſt, North-Weſt, Rhein- Rheinfield and 
tothe | field, C. | Lauffenburg 
Au- Marquiſate of Burgaw Burgaw  _ 
2 of Briſgow, on the jriburg and 
Rhine | Briſac. 


x, Great part of modern Germany lay in ancient Gaul, and 
rd Germany is of itſelf but modern. Many fanciful deriva- 
we been given of the word; the moſt probable is, that it is 
mded of Ger, or Gar, and Man; which, in the ancient cel- 
nes a warlike man. The Germans, however, went by va- 
er names, ſuch as Allemanni, Tudeſcos, from their an- 
pd Tuiſco, or from their firſt founder Thuiſcon ; which laſt 
dolt ancient deſignation. The vulgar people of Germany at 
day are unacquainted with the word German, for they 
aiclves Teutſchers, and their country Teuchland. ' 


— — 
— 


Wain.) The chief mountains of Germany are the Alps, which 
t from Italy, and thoſe which ſeparate Saxony, Bavaria, and 

rom Bohemia. Great part of Germany, however, may 
42 ſpacious plain, interſperſed here and there with agree- 
« which only tend to heighten the beauty of the ſcene. 


"| The Danube, or Donau, is ſo called from the ſwiftneſs 
* 0 the current, and by the ancieats ſometimes Ifther, riſes 
in 


* a 


7 


in the black foreſt, in the Bobth-Welt park of Swabla, run; x 
Ea 8 Swabia and Bavaria, to Rati then * 
E | e parts, 


ienna, and then, dividing Hinge, iro parts 
ence 1 


South-Eaſt to 9 in Ser via, and from 
through Turkey, falls into the Euxine or Black Sea by fey 
nels ;- being ſo wide and deep from Vienna to Belgrade; that 
of men of war. have engaged upon it in the late wars bet 
Chriſtians and the Turks 
The rivers which fall into the Daijigbe On ti 800 
Ther, br Iſer, which joins, it Ae: the 4 
Avgliburg, and falls into che „ ne 
Iar, which palles by Munich and, Landſbut, falls into it oppo 
Deckenderf; the Inn, which riſes in Switzerland, Paſſes b 
ſpruck, and falls into the Danube at Paſſaw the Ens, which 
into it at the town of Ens; the Drave, a large navigable 
which falls into the Danube at Eſſeck; the Saave, which fall 
it at Belgrade ;-and the Moravia, which runs from South to 
through-Servia, and*falls into the Danube at Senjendria. - © 
The rivers which fall into the Danube oh the North arethe R 
which joins it at Ratiſbon ; the Nab, which guns” from Ne 
South, through the palatinate of Bavaria, and falls into the I 
alſo near Ratiſbon ; the Theyſſe, which, riſing in the North q 
gary, falls into the Danube oppoſite, to Salankamen ; the Al 
1 which, in part, divides Chriſtendom from Turkey on the Eal 
falls into the Danube between Widin and Nicopolis; the 
which riſes in the North of Moldavia, and, running Soutt 
into the Danube on the Eaſt of Bargaria. There are ſev: 
racts in the Danube, and ſome unpaſſable in its run through 
which interrupt the navigation to the Black, Sea, The I 
runs a courſe of above a thouſand miles, comprehending 
windings. | D 
The Rhine riſes in the Griſon country, and runs North 
lake of Conſtance, then Weſt to Baſil, afterwards North, | 
Swabia and Alſace, then through the palatinate and elec 
Cologne, and, entering the Netherlands, is divided into 
branches, as related already in the defcription of the Nether 
The rivers which fall into the Rhine are the Neckar, wh 
from South to North through Swabia, and falls into the K 
Manhein in the Palatinate; the Maine, which runs from 
Weſt, and falls into the Rhine at Mentz; the Lhon, whi 
from Eaſt to Weſt, and falls into the Rhine below Naſſau : ü 
which runs ſrom Eaſt to Weſt through Weſtphalia, and i 
the Rhine at Duyſburg; the Lippe, which runs parallel to ti 
and falls into the Rhine at Weſel. | 
The Elbe, which riſes in the confines of Sileſia, runs Na, 


through Bohemia, Saxony, and Brandenburg, and then, .. 
the king of Great Britain's German dominions from Holt 
into the German ſea about ſeventy miles below Hamburg, . 


in its. paſſage the Muldaw, which falls into it below Prague 
la, which falls into it below Deſſau; the Havel, which falls bs are 
Elbe at Havelſburg ; and tbe Elmenau, which falls into 
Harburg. 


, which runs from South to North through Saxony 
brandenburg, paſſing by Berlin, falls into the Havel near 


Order runs from South to North through Sileſia and Bran- 
| and then, paſſing by Stetin, divides Eaſtern from Weſtern 
1 and falls into the Baltic between the iſlands of Uſedom 
Wollin. | 

= runs from Weſt to Eaſt, dividing Swediſh from Pruſ- 
Pamerania, and falls into the Baltic oppoſite to Uſedom. 

„ Weſer, riſing in Heſſe, runs North, receiving the Aller at 
u; then paſſing by Bremen, falls into the German ſea below 


+ Ems riſes near Munſter, and, running North through Welt- 
falls into the German ſea below Embden. . 
Moſelle, riſing in Lorrain, runs North-Eaſt by Treves, fal- 
zu the Rhine at Coblents. The . Maes, which riſes likewiſe 
min, runs alſo North-Eaſt by Namur, Leige, &c. and joins 
z branch of the Rhine below Nimeguen, after receiving the 
xt Roermonde. 


r, riſing in Lorrain, runs North-Weſt, and falls into the 
\ No: it Tricrs. 
ere in Germany, beſides the lakes of Conſtance, in Swabia, 
th 0 , Chiemſce, in Bavaria, Zecknitzeeſee, in Carniola, ſeve - 


ge collections of ſtagnant waters, which render their neigh» 
ods unhealthy. 


we, Soil, and Seaſons.] The climate of Germany, as in all 
rats of country, differs greatly, not only on account of the 
North, Eaſt, South, and Weſt, but according to the im- 
went of the ſoil, which has a vaſt effect upon the climate. The 
vid and ſettled weather is found in the middle of the country. 
qual diſtance from the ſea and the Alps. In the North'it is 
towards the South it is more temperate. 
fil of Germany is not improved to the full by culture, and 
* in many places it is bare and ſterile, though in others it 


ww gv fruitful. Agriculture has of late years made an ex- 
ether; progreſs, which muſt neceſſarily change the molt bar- 
„ won: Germany greatly to their advantage, The ſeaſons vary 
the 4 the foil, In the South and Weſtern parts they are more 


an thoſe that lye near the ſea, or that abound with lakes 


1, wh: The North winds and the Eaſtern blaſts are unfavour- 
av 3 UgT:7-tation. Upon the whole, there is no great difference 
and e fcaſons of Germany and thoſe of Great Britain. 
1} to u 

The vaſt paſſion which the Germans have for hunting 
ns ar, is the reaſon why perhaps there are more woods and 
them ding in Germany than in moſt other countries. 'the 


1 toreſt, which in Cæſar's time was nine days journey in 
orgs dr in breadth, is now cut down in many places, or 
rague 58 Ot into woods, which go by particular names. Moſt of 
ch falls ire pine, fir, oak, and beech. There is a vaſt number 
& imo of lets note in every part of this country; almoſt 2 

ount 


- 


ſ 
178 & EN M ⸗qp 
Count, Baron, or Gentleman, having a chaſe or va; 
pleaſure-houſes, and well ſtocked with game, e 
there are ſeven or eight Torts, as roe-hucks, flags, Ge. of all 
d colours, and many of a vaſt growth ; plenty of hares 
| 76 bears, wolves, and boars. Ther abound ſo much a0 
wild fowl, that in many places the peafants leave them and vi 
for their ordinary food. . | 


Mineral I#aters and Baths.}. Germany is faid to contain mi 
thoſe than all Europe befides. All Europe has heard of th 
waters, and thoſe of Pyrmont. Thoſe of Aix-la-Chapelle 
more noted. They are divided inta the Emperor's Bath, ar 
Little Bath; and the ſprings of both are ſo hot, that they let 
cool ten or twelve hours before they uſe them. Each of thoi 
many other- waters have their partizans in the medical fact: 
if we are to believe all they ſay, they cure diſeaſes internal a 
taneous, either by drinking or bathing. The baths and med 
waters of Ems, Wiſbaden, Schwalbach, Wildungen, and B 
likewife perform their wonders in almoſt all diſeaſes. The 
ſprings at the laſt mentioned place are faid to intoxicate as f 
wine, and therefore they are incloſed. Carlſbad and Baden 
have been deſcribed and recommended by many great phyf 
and uſed with great ſucceſs by many royal perfonages. | 

After all, many are of opinion that great part of the ſaluta 
tues aſeribed to theſe waters is owing to the exerciſes and amule 
of the patients. It is the. intereſt of the proprietors to pro 
both ; and many of the German princes feel the benefit of the 
elegant and polite inſtitutions for the diverkon of the public. 
neatneſs, cleanlineſs, and conveniency of the places of public 
are inconceivable ; and though at firſt they were attended n 
pence, yet they more than pay themſelves in a few years 
company which crouds to them from all parts of the world; 
of whom do not. repair thither for health, but for amuleme 
converſation, 


Metals and Minerali.] Germany abounds in both. Bobem 
many places in the circle of Auſtria, and other parts of Ge 
contain mines of ſilver, quickſilver, copper, tin, iron, lead, | 
nitre, and vitriol, Salt-petre, ſalt- mines, and falt-pits are it 
Auſtria, Bavaria, Silefta, and the Lower Saxony; 4s 4 
buncles, amethiſts, jaſper, ſapphire, agate, alabaſter, ſeveral| 
pearls, turquois flones, and the fineſt of rubies, which a 
cabinets of the greateſt princes and virtuoſi. In Bavaris 
and Liege, are quarries of curious marble, ſlate, chalk, och 
lead, allum, and bitumen; beſides other foſſils. In ſever 
are dug up ſtones, which to a ſtrong fancy repreſent diften 
mals, and ſometimes trees of the human form. Many oft 
man circles furniſh coal-pits, and the terra /igiilata of Ment 
white, yellow, and red veins, is thought to be an antidote 
Poiſon. The country in general yields great plenty of beg 
wheat, rye, ſpelt, barley, oats, peas, beans, vetches, and: 
of vegetables, fruits, and fiſh. 


— —_  — — 


ST 3 W337 179 
The Rheniſh and Moſelle wines differ from thoſe of other coun- 
a pecuhar lightneſs and deterſive qualities, more . ſovereign 
be diſeaſes than any medicine. ly. 

+ Cerman wild boar differs in colour from our common hogs. 
i 1h, and the hams made of it, is preſerred by many, even 
& of Weltmoreland, for flavour and grain. Ihe glutton of 
»2:y is ſaid to be the molt voracious of all animals. Its prey 
nol every thing that has life, whicli it can maſter, eſpecially 
„ hares, rabbits, goats, and fawns ; whom they furpriſe art- 
\ and devour greedily. On theſe the glutton feeds fo ravenouſ- 
tha: i: falls into a kind of a torpid ſtate, and not being able to 
e be is killed by the huntſman ; but though both boars and 
ws will kill him in that condition, they wilt not eat him. His 
i a beautiful brown, with a faint tinge of red. | 

many yields abundance of excellent heavy horſes ; but their 
und ſhcep are not comparable to thoſe of England, probably 
pg to the want of {kill in feeding and rearing them. Some parts 


in many are remarkable for fine larks, and great variety of fing- 
' "Wires, which arc ſent to all parts of Europe. Game is found 
* c whore in abundance. I 


wſa7urc;.] The Germans are allowed to be excellent mechanics 
chymiſts. 'The art of printing is ſaid to be an invention of 
but the Dutch diſpute this point with them; however, it 
prattiſed in both countries much about the ſame time, viz. in 
at Mentz, by John Fauſt. Gun-powder, and the uſe of guns, 
pred to be the indention of Barthold Schwarts, a Franciſcan 
about the year. 1330. 
heir artificers at Nuremburg, and ſome other cities, are ſaid to 
all Europe in their manufactures of ſteel, iron, braſs, wood, 
ler, Cc. ſelling their goods extremely cheap; and no place is 
amous tor clock - work, guns, and locks of all kinds. The 
lg tin- plates, or white iron, was peculiar to the Germans; but 
flates are now tinned and manufactured in Great Britain, par- 
in Wales. They have alſo great plantations of flax and 
and make a great deal of linen, which the Englifh, as well 
er nations, take off their hands. They have good iron and 
mines, and ſome of ſilver, and a variety of other mincral 
lions, particularly quickſilver. 


ublic 
ed vi 


ay | revocation of the edit of Nantes, by Lewis XIV. which 
a W- krench Proteſtants to ſettle in different parts of Europe, 
þ ite ſervice to the German manufactures. They now 
oi rivets, ſilks, ſtuffs of all kinds, fine and coarſe ; linen and 
oi and every thing neceſſary for wear, to great perfection. The 


ail of Meiſſen. in the electorate of Saxony, and its paintings, 
at of all the world. 


1} Their exportation conſiſts chiefly of linen, ſkins, iron, 
nd toys; theſe are lent abroad by the Rhine, the Elbe, the 
and other, rivers. T hey export alto great quantities of Rhe- 
de, bacon, beer, and mum: and we have an act for permit - 
* 1nportation of timber from Germany. The French receive 

2 a great 


we 2 
# 


a „ K &# x 
Count, Baron, or Gentleman, baving g cha or park x 
pleaſure - houſes, and well Rocked with game, viz, den 
there are ſeven or eight Torts, as roe-bucks, ſtags, * 
and colours, and many of à vaſt growth plenty of kt 
boxes, bears, wolyes, and boars. Abe abound ſo mg 
\ , wild fowl, that in many places che peafincs Teave thim 


1 . : 
* T i d - * 
= * * * 1 , 
* 


for their ordinary food. 


1 Mineral Waters and Bath. J German 
. thoſe than all Europe 'befides, All Tages has heard! 
waters, and: thoſe. of Pyrmont. Thoſe of Aix-la-Cha 
more noted. They are divided inta the Emperor's Bai 
Little Bath; and the ſprings of both are ſo. hot, that ths 
cool ten or twelve hours before they uſe them. Fach off 
many other. waters have their partizans in the medical! 
if we are to believe all they ſay, they cure diſcaſes.interd 
taneous, either by drinking or bathing. The baths and 
waters of Ems, Wiſbaden,, Schwalbach, Wildungen, ad 
Kkewiſe perform their wonders. in almoſt all diſcaſes. T 
ſprings at the laſt mentioned place are ſaid to intoticates 
wine, and therefore they are incloſed. Carlſbad and Bal 
have. been deſcribed and recommended By many great j 
and uſed with great ſucceſs by many royal perfonages. 
After all; mavy are of opinion that great part of the f 
tues aſeribed to theſe. waters is owing to the exerciſes andin 
of the patients. It is the, intereſt. of the proprietors top 
both; and many of the German princes feel the benefit of 
elegant and polite inſtitutions for the diverſion of the publ 
neatneſs, . cleanlineſs, and conveniency of the places of pi 
are inconceivable ; and though at firſt they were attended 
pence, yet they more than pay themſelves in a few yan 
company which crouds to them from all parts of the worl 
of whom do not. repair thither for health, but ſor amule 
converſation. | 2 


Metals and Minerali.] Germany abeunds iti both, Bal 
many places in the circle of Auſtria, and other parts of 
contain mines of ſilver, quick{ulver, copper, tin, iron, lead 

nitre, and vitriol. Salt-petre, ſalt- mines, and falt-pits ut 

Auſtria, Bavaria, Silefta, and the Lower Saxony; ® 

buncles, amethiſts, jaſper, ſapphire, agate, alabalter, ſeye | 
pearls, turquois flones, and the fineſt of rubies, whicd! 
cabinets of the greateſt princes and virtuoſi. In Bar 
and Liege, are quarries of curious marble, flate, chalk, « 
lead, allum, and bitumen beſides other foflils. In fen 
are dug up ſtones, which to a ſtrong fancy repreſent due 
mals, and ſometiines trees of the human form. Many of 
man circles furniſh coal-pits, and the terra Hgillats of Mer 
white, yellow, and red veins, is thought to be an anti 

Poiſon. The country in general yields great plenty of mis 

wheat, rye, ſpelt, barley, . oats, peas, beans, vetclies, 

- of vegetables, fruits, and fiſh. 


is faid to nth 


1 
* 


Ani and Moſelle wines differ from thoſe of other coun- 

| peculiar lightneſs and deterſive qualities, more. ſovereign 

Safes than any medicine.. 

nan wild boar differs in colour from our common hogs. 

aud the hams made of it, is preferred by many, even 

A Welimoreland, for flavour and grain. Ihe glutton of 
g lud to be the molt, voracious of all animals. Its prey 

| every thing that has life, which it can maſter, eſpecially 

Lires, rabbits, goats, and fawns ; whom they ſurpriſe art- 

id devour greedily. On cheſe the glutton feeds ſo ravenouſ- 
falls into a kind of a torpid ſtate, and not being able to 

e is killed by the huntſman : but though both boars and 

will kill him in that condition, they wilt.not eat him. His 

2 beautiful brown, with a faint tinge of ret. 

any yields abundance of excellent heavy horſes; but their 

d ſheep are not comparable to thoſe of England, probably 

d the want of (kill in feeding and rearing them. Some. parts 

any are remarkable for fine larks, and great variety of fing- 

„ which arc ſent to all parts of Eurape. Game is found 

hore in abundance. 8282 3 F 


hure. The Germans are allowed to be excellent mechanics 
(wiſts, I'be art of printing is ſaid to be an invention of 
but the Dutch diſpute this point with chem; however, it 
aiſed in both countries much about the ſame-time, z. in 
Meatz, by John Fauſt. Gun- powder, and the uſe of guns, 
d to be the invention of Barthold Schwarts, a Franciſcan 
about the year. 1330. * £ e 44d OB) $36 

r artificers at Nuremburg, and ſore. other cities, are ſaid to 
Europe in their manufactures of ſteel, iron, braſs, wood, 
*, Cc. ſelling their goods extremely cheap and no place is 
amous for clock - work, guns, and Jocks of ali. kinds. The 
| tin-plates, or white iron, was peculiar to the Germans but 
s are now tinned and manuſactured in Great Britain par- 
in Wales. They. have alſo great plantations of flax and 
md make a great deal of linen, which the Englifh, as well 
© rations, take off their hands. They have good iron and 
mins, and ſome of ſilver, and à variety of other mineral 
Wons, particularly quickſilver. | 41% 2.35 x 
revocation of the edit of Nantes, by Lewis XIV, which 
be French Proteſtants to ſettle in different parts of Europe, 
infinite ſervice to the German manufactures. They now 
iets, ſilks, ſtuffs of all kinds, fine and coarſe ; linen and 
ad every thing neceſſary for wear, to great perfection. The 
a of Meifen, in the electorate of Saxony, and its paintings, 
Wat of all the world. ö | ' 


, 


* Their exportation conſiſts chiefly of linen, fins, iron, 
Wd toys; theſe are lent abroad by the Rhine, the Elbe, the 
ad other, rivers. They export alſo great quantities of Rhe- 
®, bacon, beer, and mum: and we have an act for permit- 


mportation of timber from Germany. The French receivg 
0 a great 


F * 


* 


: e , "0 
= | 0 1 4 N 7 * | 0 
s 8 
a great number of horſes from Germany, to re moutt i 
In lieu of their exports, they receive the produce and u 
of other nations; particularly they receive from England 
en manufactures, tobatco, ſugar, ginger, 'Eaft-Indi; 
and lead.: but ſeveral ſorts of our woolen manufattind 
Prohibited by ſome of the German princes, and others þ 
|. bited all of them; which makes the balance of trade with 
tc be againſt us 5000000 annually, rding to Geet 
 I'* ure others of different opinie 0 HG, 


o 


The Aſlatic company of Embd 


| en, eſtabliſhed by his pri 
ian Majeſty, was, exchuſive-of the Hanſeatic league, the 
b mercial company in Germany but no {hips have been fea 
= the year 1760. The heavy taxes that his majelty; laid « 
pany, has been the cauſe of its total annihilation. In th 
ties of Germany very large and extenſive partnetihip 


. ſubſiſts. * * 

| s Tea * a LF £ H GUY f K 99 4 Ee 3 * 

Iulabitanti, Manners, Cuſtamt, As the empire of 0 
Dioenant, and Drei. a collection of ſepum 


each. having a different government and police, e at 
with preciſion as to the number of its inhabitants; buti 
*fixed at twenty millions, the number 7s perhaps not eig 
When the landholders become better acquainted withy 
and cultivation, population muſt naturally increaſe aten 
The Germans in their perſons © are tall, fait, and fin 
The Ladies have generally fins complexions f and fome of 
ſpecially in Saxony, have all the delicacy of features au 
are fo bewitching in a certain iſland of Europe. | 
Both men and women affect rich dreſſes, which'in falbe 
fame as in France and England; but the better ſort of 
ceſſively fond of gold and filver lace, efpecially if they 
army. The Ladies at the principal courts differ not u 
drefg from the French and Engliſh, only they are not 
-Jond'of paint as the former. At ſome conrrs they appat 
furs, and all of them are loaded with Jewels, if they 
them. The female part of the burgliers families iu u 
German towns, dreſs in a very different manner, and om 
inconceivably fantaſtic, as may be ſeen in many prints f 
books of travels; but in this reſpect they are graduah 
and many of them make quite a different appearance my 
from what they did thirty or forty ears ago; as to we 
and labourers, they dreſs as in other parts of Europe, 4 
| their employments, eonveniency, and opulence. In Welt 
moſt other parts of Germany, they ffeep between two rn 
or rather the upper one of down, with ſheets ſtitchedto mt 
by uſe becomes a very comfortable practice. The m 
part of the Germans are the tenants of little needy pam 
- ſqueeze them to keep up their own grandeur: but in g 
- circumſtances of the common people are far preferable u 
the French. ; | | | * 
The Germans are naturally a frank, honeſt, Dofus! 
» free from artifice and diſguiſe. The higher orders arr 


TEES SE F. 1 


animation, as their perſonb promiſe mare vigour 
8 That rhey, commonly ht Bach in the 644 or St 
commanded by able generals, eſpecially che Ntaliags, Tye 
cok and prince Eugene, they have done great thangs both 
ja and th French.” Tk inpetial arms hays Bhd 
remarkable figure againſt either. of thoſe two. nari 9055 or 
Sides or Spaniards, when' commanded by German, ge- 
This poſſibly miglit be owing" to the arbitrary obllinacy of 
of Vienna; for in the two,lalt wars the Auſtrians exhibi- 


ges of military valour and genius. 


German nation, efpecidily the\mechanical part © 
kn of art would be Fa err 2 "they not viſible, elpe⸗ 
watch and clock-making, jewel Ys tdrnury, ſculpture 
, painting, and certain Kinds of arc ireQure, ſome of 1 50 
Lie occaſion to mention.” THe Gerchans have been charge 
aperance in eating and drinking, and perhaps non 
to the valt plenty ot their coontry- in wine an 4 18 vi n tis of 
Fd. But thoſe prafticgs, ſcem now ro be wearitlg Har. At 
ket tables, chough the gueſts, drink pretty freely at dinner, 
repalt is commonly finiſhed” by coffee, after three or.fo 15 
balls have been drank. But no people have more, feal ing 
bages, funerals, and 'birth-days. + t n r | 
German nobility are generally inen 6f ſo much honour, ha 
ker in other countries, eſpecially ia England, meets with. re 
The pretends to ber a Gerqnan, Fecher Than of Any F a 


merchants and tradeſmen are very civil ind bbliging.”.All the 
toblemen inherit their fathers titles, which greatly p. rplexes 


reaſons why the German, huſbani age. not quite ſo coinplai- 
they ought otherwiſe to be to their” ladies, who are not en- 


* bring! far from either ambition of Joquacity, though they 
to be ſomewhat too fond of gaining, From what has been 


luring no other hereditary eſtate than à high-ſounding title, 
eter into their armies, and thoſe of other ſovereigns. Their 
fe for title is attended with many other inconveniencies. Their 
$think that the cultivation of their lands, though it may treble 
venue, is below their attention; and that, as they are a ſpe- 
| beings ſuperior to labourers of every kind, they would de- 


Ids, 


* domeſtic diverſions of the Germans are the ſame as in En- 
i billiards, cards, dice, fencing, dancing, and the like. In 
kn, people of faſhion repair to places of public reſort, and 
waters. As to their field-diverſions, beſides their ſavour- 
ol hunting, they have bull and bear-baiting, and the like. 
itants of Vienna live luxurioufly, a great part of their 
$ bent in fealling and carouſing; and in Winter, when the 


FEE 


& and genealogiſts of that 9 7 0 This perhaps is one 
ds, 


da, it may eaſily be conceived, that many of the German no- 


themiclves in being concerned in the improvement, of, their 


ſeyeral 


— 


- 


bs, application, and'perſeveranies, ire the greas'charatter 


gully, - 


o any pre-eminence at the table; nor indeed do they Teem to 


* 8 N ds he ey 
W TT FE RT” 
a great number of horſes from Germany, to rel mount ib. 
In lieu of their exports, they receive che produce and mz 
of other nations; particularly they receive from England 
en manufactures, e VET ginger, 'Eaft-India 1 
and lead.: but ſeveral" forts of our woolen manufactures 
prohibited by ſome of the German princes, and others þ 
bited all of them; whieh makes the balance of trade with 
to be againſt us 30000 U. inriually,* according to Gee: 
are others of different opinioſs s 
- The Aſlatic company of Embden, eſtabliſhed'by his prd 
ſian«Majelty, was, excluſive of the Hanſeatic league, thei 
mercial company in Germany; but no thips have been ent 
the year 1760. The heavy taxes that his majefty; laid on 
pany, has been the cauſe of its total annihilation. In the 
ties of Germany very large and 'extenfive” partnerſhips 
W 


, 464 e 


"4 Tnbabitants, Manners, Cuſtoms, As the empire of 0 
5 Dioerfions, and Dreſs. 1 a collection of ſepura 
each having a different government and police, we eat 
with preciſion as to the number of its inhabitants ; but if 
fixed at twenty millions,” the number is perhaps not eig 
When the landholders become better atquainted with ay 
and cultivation, population muſt naturally inereaſe among 
be Germans in their perſons are täll, fair, and fro 
The Ladies have generally fint complexions : and ſome of 
ſpocially in Saxony, have all the delicacy of features and 
are ſo bewitching in a certain iſland of Eutope. | 
Both men and women affect rich dreſſes, which in faltic 
fame as in France and England; but the better ſort of me 
ceſſively fond of gold and ſilver lace, eſpecially it they 
army. The Ladies at the principal courts differ not mut 
dreſs from the French and Engliſh, only they are not lo 
jond of paint as the former. At ſome conrts they appes 
Furs, and all of them are loaded with jewels, if they c 
them. The female part of the burghers families in mal 
German towns, dreſs in a very different manner, and for 
inconceivably fantaſtic, as may be ſeen in many prints pu 
books of travels; but in this reſpect they are gradually te 
and many of them make quite a different appearance Ws 
from what they did thirty or forty years ago; as to the 
and labourers, they dreſs as in other parts of Europe, ac 
their employments, eonveniency, and opulence. - In Weſtpi 
moſt other parts of Germany, they ffeep between two feat! 
- or rather the upper one of down, with ſheets ſtitched to thet 
by uſe becomes a very comfortable practice. The mol 
part of the Germans are the tenants of — 7 aj 
- ſqueeze them to keep up their own grandeur : 
eee Tenn of Lab people are far preferable td 
the French. 9 | | * 
The Germans are naturally a frank, honeſt, hoſpuath 
v free from artifice and diſguiſe. The higher orders aren 


N N . 
3 


r 
hs, anceſtry, and here, * THY Germans, Ir geBergh. irs 
b want animation, as. their Petlonb promiſe more figour 
++ than they commonly exert, even in the field" of battle. 
— commanded by able generals, eſpecially the Italians, ſuch 
Cncoli and prince Eugene, they have done great thin gx bo 
he Torks and the French. The imperial arms have dan 
y remarkable figure againſt eicher of thoſe” two- nations, or 
the Swedes or Spaniards, when commanded by er man ge- 
This poſſibly might-be owing” to the arbitrary Obfligach of 
+ of Vienna; for in the two.laſt wars the Auſtrians 'Exhibi- 
ligies of military valour and genius, $f ohm WET 
ſy aplcatin, and peeleveratics, dre tht great; charatter, 
the German nation, gfpectally che mechanical part, of it. 
ks of art would be incredible,” were: they not” viſible, elpe- 
n watch and clock-making, jewellery, tarnury, ſculpture 
, painting, and certain Kinds of architecture, ſome of whic 
de occaſion to mention Tue Gerchans häve been charge 
aper in eatibg and deln king, aug perhaps ß A 
p the valt plenty of their cbantey du wine and provilions 0 
nd. But thoſe 'praQicgs, ſebm now ch be wearitig but, At 
teſt tables, though the gueſts drink pretty freely aut dinger, 
repalt is commonly, finiſhed by coffee, after three or, four 
walls have been drank. But no people have more feaſting 
mages, funerals, and birth-days. To OOO 
German nobility are generally men of ſo much honour, , that 
er in other countries, eſpecially in England, meets with more 
# be pretends to be a German, rather than of any pther na- 


1 


merchants and tradeſmen are very civil and 6bliging.” A the 
roblemen inherit their fathers titles, which 'greatly perplexes 


raſons why the German huſbands, ate. not quite ſo complai- 
$ they ought otherwiſe to be to their” Jathes, Who are not,cn- 


being far from either ambition or Joquacity, though they 
Kd to be ſomewhat too fond of gaining, From what has been 
ike, It may eaſily be conceived, that many of the German no- 
luring no other hereditary eſtate than 2 high-ſounding title, 
mer into their armies, and thoſe of other ſovereigns. Their 
b for title is attended with many other inconveniencies. Their 
think that the cultivation of their lands, though it may treble 
Rene, is below their attention; and that, as they are a ſpe- 
brings ſuperior to labourers of every kind, they would de- 
I emlves in being concerned in the improvement of their 


| domeſtic diverſians of the Germans are the ſame as in En- 
bj biliards, cards, dice, fencing, dancing, and the-like. , In 
{> people of faſhion repair to places of public reſort, and 
« 122 As to their field-diverſions, beſides their ſavour- 
ating, they have bull and bear-baiting, and the like. 
5. 8 Vienna live luxurioufly, a great part of their 
5 Pent in fealling and carouſing; and in Winter, when the 

| ſeyeral 


ons of 


ds and genealogiſts of that country,” This perhaps is one | 


b any pre-eminence at the table; nor indeed do they ſeem to 


, 
- 
- 
, 
1 
- , 


- 


"* ib. 1 * 
r RY So eee 3 


—— — öoqʒHÄ 


— 


— 


8 


- ÞAorned with laces and jewels, having on her head a zee 


182 © E & * A WAY. 

ſeyeral branches of the Danube are ſrozen oyer, and the 
vered with ſnow, the Ladies. take their recreation 112 
ferent ſhapes, ſuch as grifhns, tygers, ſwans, ſcallop 
Here the Lady ſits, dreſſed in velvet-lined with rk 


the Tedge is drawn by one horſe, flag, or other ws 
off with plumes of feathers, ribbons, aud. bells,” A; tel 

is taken chiefly in the night-time, ſervants ride. before if 
with torches, and a gentleman fitting on the fledge heli 


Religion.] This is a copious article, but I ſhall cone 
What is molt neceſſary to be known. Before the.reformaty 
duced by Luther, che German biheps Were polleſed [y 
many of them are at this day) of prodigious power andy 
and were the tyrants of the Emperors as well as the peogly 
Ignorance was only equalled by their ſuperſtition, - The k 
were the firſt whe had an idea of reformation, and made og 
a ſtand for many years againſt the errors of Rome, that | 
indulged in the liberty of taking the ſacrament in both ky 
other freedoms not tolerated in the Romiſh church. Thi x 
7 meaſure owing to Wickliff, an Engliſhman, who» 

arther in reforming the real errors of popery than Luther 
Wickliff was ſeconded by John Huls, and . Jerome of Prag 
notwithſtanding the Emperor's ſafe conduct, were infamouly 


©.» Ef '-» ** 


at the, council of Conſtance. NG: 

| The reformation introduced afterwards. by Luther *, of x 
Have fpcke in the introduction, though it ſtruck at the chi 

in the church of Rome, was thought +in ſome points (path 
that of conſubſtantiation, by which the real bod of Chril, 
as the elements of bread. and wine, is ſuppoſed to be taken i 
crament) to be imperfect. Calviniſm , therefore, or the re 
Geneva as now practſed in the church of Scotland) vw 
ced into Germany, and is now the religion of the King ef m 
Landgrave of Heſſe, and ſome other princes, Who maintain 

of r in the church. Some go ſo far as to ſay that thel 
of Proteſtants and Papiſts in the empire are now almolt equal 
many, particularly Bohemia, Moravia, and. the Palatinatey 
run with ſectaries of all kinds; and Jews: abound in the emp 
preſent, the modes of worſhip and forms of church · gorerm 
* the Proteſtant German princes coulidered in à civil rather 
religious light. The Proteſtant. clergy are learned and en 
in 3 but the Popiſh ignorant and hibertine- 


Archbiſh:pfecs and Biſbpſees.] There are ſix archbilkopric 


* Born in Saxony, in the year 1483, began to diſpute the dodtrines of 
church 1517, and died 15 46, in the 63d year of his age. 4 
+ Jobn Calvin was born in the province of Picardy, in the North * 
15606. Being obliged to fly from that kingdom, he fertled at r ; 
he eſtabliſhed a new form of church=diſcipline,' which h ſpon ater une 
veral nations and ſtates, who are now denominated Calvinilts, of Py 1 
died at Geneva, in the year 1564; and his writings make u yolus 


EE Es  W- 
| — as being a H—_— to the archbiſhopſee of 722 
others as being an are iſhopric, but depending imme - 
un tbe Pope. The others are the archbiſhop of Mentz, 
under him twelve ſuffragans, but one of them, the biſhop 
4s, is fad to be exempted from his juriſdiction 3 Tiers 
+ ſufragans ;—Cologne has four: Magdeburg bas five z 
4 has nine, Beſides Vienna ;—atid Bremen three. oo 
rent periods ſinee the reformation it has been found expe- 
fatisfy the claims of temporal princes, to ſeeularize che fol. | 
viſhopſces, Bremen, Verden, "Magdeburgh,” Halberſtadt, 
Oſaaburg, (which goes alternately to the houſes of Bavaria 
over, and is at preſent held by his Britannic Majeſty's ſe- 
1) and Lubec. Such of thoſe Sees as were Archbiſhoprics 
confidered as Duchies, and the Biſboprics as Prineipalities. 


2] The Teutonic part of the German tongue is an orĩgĩ · 
pace, and has no relation to the Celtic. It is called High- 
and is the mother tongue ef all Germany; but varies ſo 
n its dialect, that the people of one province ſcarcely under- 
boſe of another. Latin and French are the moſt uſeful lan- 
in Germany, when a traveller is ignorant of High- Dutch. 
German Pater-Noſter is as follows: Unſer Fater, der du bi 
„ Ceheiliget werde dein name. Zukemme dein reich, Dein 
lebe, wie im himmel alſo auch auf erden. Unſer taglich. brodt 
texte, Cnd vergib uns unſer ſchuld, alt wir vergeben unſern 
mn. Unie fubre uns nicht in verſuchung. Sonden erloſe uns 
ſen, Den drin is das reich, und die crafft, und die berrlick- 
ewigbeit. Amen. 5 
N 

ig, larnel Men, and Univerſitizs.] No country has pro- 
a greater variety of authors than Germany, and there is no 
a more general taſte for reading, eſpecially in the Proteſtant 
u. Printing is encouraged to a fault; every man of letters 
Whor; they multiply books without number, thouſands of 
ad diſputations are annually publiſhed ; fos no man can be 
ze 10 their univerſities, who has. not publiſhed one diſputa- 
Feat. In this country there are 36 univerſities, of which 
Proteſtant, 17 Roman Catholic, and two mixed; beſides æ 
der of colleges, gymnaſia, pedagogies, and Latin ſchools. 
we alſo many academies and ſocieties for the promoting the 
& natural philoſophy, the Belles Lettres, antiquities, paintings 
, architecture, &c. as the Imperial Leopoldine academy of 
we cui; the academy of ſciences at Vienna, at Berlin, at 
dn, at Erfurth, at Leipfic, at Duiſburgh, at Bremen, at 
* at Hamburgh. At Dreſden and Nuremburg are aca- 
n Painting, at Berlin a royal military academy, and at Aug- 
oe imperial Fraciſcan academy of fine arts, to which we 
Kd the Latin ſociety at Gena. Of the public libraries the moſt 
are thoſe of Vienna, Berlin, Halle, Wolfenbuttel, Han- 
"nge2, Weimar, and the council library at. Leipfic. * The 
de written largely upon the Roman and Canon laws ; 


Stahl, 


Sri, Van Swicren, Srl, 29d Hoffman, bays con] 
55 the improvement of phylic.; Nat aud Dillenin 
: hr of anatomy..and_.ſurverys; Newman, Zewmers 
and Margraff, of chymilley.. In 8 natural and 
reputation of Leibnitz, "Wilkins," Puffendorf, 'Thomakius 
Gueriche, and Kepler, 1s great. Eyery prince, baron 
tleman in Germany is a chymilt. of natutal philoſopher. 
has alſo produced good political y riters, geographers, and 
of whom Baſhing 1s the 4 8 Liab but they ſeem} 
great taſte or capacity for works of wit and entertainment, 
plays, romances, and novels, or; what is called the Bells 
but they have had ſome good tritics and antiquarians, 
one great defect, in all their: writings, namely, that th 
tremely prolix, dry, voluminous, and mechanical, and h 
or nothing of that valuable art in which ſome nations excel 
of enlivening their performances, aud mixing the plealan . 
uſeful. Some, writers however of the preſent age, as | 
- Rabner, Gellert, Kleiſt, Geſner, Gleim, Gottſched, ant 
doru are exceptions ſrom theſe remarks. _ With reſpeck w 
arts, the Germans have acquitted themſelves tolerably wel 
many has produced ſame good painters, architects, ſculpy 
engravers. 'They even pretend to have been the firlt ine 
engraving, etching, and, mezzotinto. ; Germany has likes 
duced ſome excellent muſicians ; Handel, Bach, and Halle 
Fandel ſtands at the head; and it is acknowledged, that N 
at the ſublime of muſic, but he had not the ſmalleſt idea 
muſic and ſentimental expreſſion. 


public and private; with occaſional & in all countries, 

eſtimates of Revenues and Population. ) particularly 10 
many, on account of the numerous independent ſtates it a 
The reader therefore muſt be contented with the montion of 
capital places and their peculiarities, 

Though Berlin is accounted the capital of all his Prul 
jeſty's dominions, and exhibits perhaps the wolt illuſtrious! 
of ſudden improvement that this age can boaſt of; yet, du 
late war, it was found a place of no ſtrength, and tell twice 
without reſiſtance, into the hands of the Aultrians, who, I 
been for the politeneſs of their generals, and their Jove 19 1 
arts, which always preſerves mankind from barbarity and nan: 
ty, would have levelled it to the ground- | | 

Berlin lyes on the river Spree, and, beſides a royal pal 
many other ſuperb palaces; it contains fourteen Lutheran 
ven Calviniſt churches, beſides a Popiſh one. Its ſtreets and 
are ſpacious ; its manufactures of all Kinds are numerous, 
provided: it abounds with theatres, ſchools, Jibraries, and 
table foundations, The number of its inhabitants, aces 
Buſching, in 1755, was 126,661, including the garriſon. 
ſame year, and according to the ſame author, there were 
than, 443 ſilk- looms, 149 of half-filks, 285 f Jooms ſor "_ 
453 for cottan, 248 for linen, 454 for lace-work, 39 men 


Cities, Towns, Forts, and other aol This is a con 


\ 


0 * 1 * A n u wn 
nd 310 for worked ones. They have here manufaQures 
. gold and ſilver lace, and mirrors. 


ni | | na a vl 

che ate of Saxony is by nature the richeſt country in Ger- 
and * in Europe: it contains 210 walled towns, 61 market 
aſus, 4 about 3000 villages, according to the lateſt accounts of 


un themſelves (to which, however, we are not to give an 
60 and the revenue, eſtimating each rix - dollar at four 
id fi- pence, amounts to 1,350,000 1. This ſum is fo mo- 


ſeem! hen compared to the richneſs of the ſoil, which, if we are 
ent, Dr Buſching, produces even diamonds, and almoſt all 
Belge aones to be found in the Eaſt-Indies and'elſewhere, and 
$, of ſplendid manufactures, that I am apt to believe the 
at th lues to have been the molt moderate and patriotic of any 


ul lade more than has been already ſaid of all fine ei- 
hreſden, the Elector of Saxony's capital, that its fortifica« 
es, public buildings, churches, and charitable founda- 
id above all, its ſuburbs are magnificent beyond all expreſ- 
it is beautifully ſituated on both ſides the Elbe; and that 
wol of Germany, for ſtatuary, painting, enamelling, and 
not to mention its mirrors, and founderies for bels and 
2nd its foreign commerce carried on by mean; of the Elbe. 
abitants of Dreſden, by the lateſt accounts, amount to 
The famous porcelain manufaQory is carried. on at Meiſ- 
the Elbe, about ſixteen miles from Dreſden. 1 
of Hanover, the capital of that electorate, ſtands on the 
ne, but is of no great conſideration; It contains about 
5 among which there is an electoral palace. It carries 
manufactures ; and in its neighbourhood lyes the palace and 
gardens of Herenhauſens The dominions of the electorate 
per contain about 7 50,000 people, who live in 58 cities, 
rket towns, beſides. villages, . The city and ſuburbs of 
part of which belonging by purchaſe to the ſaid elector, 
about 50,000 inhabitants, and has a conſiderable trade by 
*. The other tawns belonging to the ſaid electorate have 
L manufactures ; but, in general, it muſt be remarked, that 
Wrate has ſuffered greatly by the acceſſion of the Hanover 
Þ the crown of Great Britain. I ſhall here juſt mention, on 
of its relation to our royal family, the ſecularized biſhopric 
ng, lying between the rivers Weſer and Ems. The chief 
uburg, has been long famous all over Europe for the ma- 
known by the name of the Duchy, and for the manufac+ 
ie beſt Weſtphalia hams. The whole revenue of the biſhop- 
dts to about 30,000 . n 
v, the capital of Sileſia, which formerly belonged to the 
of Bohemia, lyes on the river Oder, and is a fine city, 
Wl {& of Chriſtians and Jews are tolerated, but the magi- 
latheran, Since Siletia fell under the Pruſſian dominion, 
s greatly improved, though very, inconſiderable before. 
uadures of Sileſia, which principally center at Breflau, are 
The revenue of the whole is by ſome ſaid to bring his 
fly in near a million ſterling 3 hut this ſum ſeems to be 
A 2 |  Exage 


SS 


: 


„ 

Eh if, as other authors of good note write, th 
into the houſe of Auſtria above 560000” yearly; | 
-* Viewx4 is the capital of the circle of Auſtria, and he; 
_ dence of the Emperor, is fuppoltd to be the capital of f 
is a noble and a ſtrong city, and the princes of the houſe « 
| have omitted nothing that could” contribute to its on 
| riches, The two Avſtrias, aud the hereditary de 
houſe, are by nature ſo well furniſhed with all materials $ 
uries, the canveniencies, and the neceffarics of life, thath 
8 into this city are almoſt rotally prohibited. Vi 
ins an excellent univerſity, a bank, Which is in the m 
| of her own magiſtrates, and a court of commerce imme 
Jet to the aulic councit. Its religious buildings, with 
and gardens, occupy a ſixth part of the town; Tut the fil 
larger than the city. It would be endleſs to enumerate 
palaces, two of which are imperial, of this capital; its fon 
demies, and libraries; and, among others, the fine ont 
Tugene, with his and the imperial cabinets of curiofitics 
its rich convents is one for the Scots nation, built in honor 
countryman St Colman, the patron of Auſtria ; and one 
gates of this city is called the geots gate, in reftiembraic 
notable exploit performed there by the troops of that nati 
Inhabitants, if we are to believe Dr Buſching, are betwee 
and 200,000 ; and the 'encouragement given them by t| 
reigns, has rendered Vienna the rendezvons of all the nale 
After all that has been faid of this magnificent city, the! 
did and ſenſible of thoſe who have viſited it, are far from 
vill in its praiſe. The ſtreets, excepting ſome in the any 
narrow and dirty; the houſes and furniture of the citizens * 
ly diſproportioned to the magnificence of the palaces, hu 
other public buildings; but above all, the exceſſive impot 
the houſe of Auſtria upon every commodity in his dommy 

always keep the manufacturing part of their ſubjects 
preſent imperial majeſty ſeems to be ſenſible of truths 
plain to all the world but his predeceſſors and their count 
examines things with his own! eyes, and has defcended 
haughtinefs of demeanour which rendered the imperial cou 
diſagreeable, and indeed ridiculous, to the reſt of Europe 
nera}, the condition of the Auſtrian ſubjects has been/greal 
rated fince his acceffion to the imperial throne ; but in 
agreeably to the fentiments of bis mother, who is then 

. pofſefior of thoſe vaſt dominiors. rer 


ö 


Conflitution and Government.] Almoſt every prinee in | 
fand there are about 300 of them) is arbitrary with reg! 
government of his own eſtates, but the whole of them fora 
confederacy, governed by political laws, at the head of wi 
Emperor, and whoſe power in the collective badi or the a 
cirectorial but executive, and even that gives Him va! 
The ſupreme power in Germany is in rhe diet, which = 
of the Emperor, or, in his abſence, of his Commillary, | 
three colleges of the empire, Ihe firſt of cheſe is the elec 


ww 


intricacy of the German eonſtitution, for George II. of 
mas obliged to furniſh his quota againſt the houſe of Au- 
| the Kiag of Pruſſia, while he was fighting for them both. 
wor claims a precedency for his ambaſſadors in all Chriſti» 


ee in the imperial court, and they have the ſole election of 
tor. They are in order, A | 
rebbiſhop of Mentz, who is high-chancellor of the empire 
in Germany. | | 1. 
ſchbiſnop of Treves, who is high- chancellor of the empire 
France, n 6 : 1. 
xchbiſhop of Cologne, who is the ſame in Italy. 

Ing, or rather elector of Bohemia, who is cup-bearer, 

. of Bavaria, who is grand fewer, or officer who ſerves 
Lthe ſeaſis. ; 93 N 
dor of Saxony, who is grand marſhal of the empire. 


aderlain, 

Kor Palatine, who is great ſteward ; and 

of arch-treaſurer. - | | 

keefary for the emperor, before he calls a diet, to have the 

thoſe members ; and during the vacancy of the imperial 

eeleftors of Saxony and Bavaria have juriſdiction, the for- 

de North, and the latter over the Southern circles. 

clefiatical prinees are as abſolute as the temporal ones in 
dominions. The chief of theſe, beſides the three ec · 

Weleftors already mentioned, are the archbiſhop of Salta - 


FO” Phops of Liege, Munſter, Spire, Worms, Wirtſburg. 
burg, Bamberg, and Paderborn. Beſides theſe are 
e ccleſiattical princes. Germany abounds with many 
bees, whoſe juriſdictions are likewiſe abſolute z and 


lm very conſiderable, and all of them are choſen by their 
Pers, The chief of the ſecular princes are the * 
| A a 2 0 


o R R MW R NW n 


Jin the matriculation roll, thou h perhaps, as an elector r 
may eſpouſe a different fide from that of the diet. This 


un of the empire ans nine im number, Each has. a pars.” 


or of Brandenburg (now king of Pruſſia) who is great 


dedor of Hanover (king of Great Britain) who claims the 


. X N P 7 K '» 7 \ 


188 G6 ER NM A N 
of Heſſe, the Dukes of Brunſwick,” Wolſenburtle 
Miecklenburgh, Saxe-Gotha, the, Marquiſſes of Baden 

bach, with the Princes of Naſſau, Anhalt, Furſtenburg 
others, Who have all high titles, and are ſovereigus in the 
minions. The free cities are nkewiſe ſovereign ſtates; 

are imperial, or compoſe' a part of the diet, bear the iny 

in their arms; thoſe which are Hanſe-towns, of which w 
ken in the introduction, have ſtill great privileges and 
but they ſubſiſt no longer as a political body: 
The imperial — and that of Wetzlaar, which 
known by the name of the Aulic-vouncil, are the two-ſupr 
for determining the great cauſes of the empire, ariſing hg 
reſpective members. The imperial -conncil conſiſts of 30 
aſſeſſors. The preſident and four of them are appointed y 
peror, and each of the electors ehuſe one, and the other pri 
ates the reſt. This court is at preſent held at Wetalazr 
merly it reſided at Spire; and cauſes may be brought he 
appeal. The aulic-council* was originally no better tha! 
court of the dominions of the houſs-of Auſtria, As tha 
power increaſed, the juriſdiction of the aulic-council wt 
and at laſt, to the great diſguſt of the princes of the em 
ſurped upon the powers of the imperial chamber, and en 
diet. It conſiſts of a prefident, a vice-chancellor, a wet 
a certain number of aulic councellors, of whom fix are Pr 
beſides other officers, but the Emperor in fact is maſter oft 
Theſe courts follow the ancient laws of the empire forthe 
| — the golden bull, the pacification of Paſſau, and the civil le 
We Beides theſe courts of juſtice, each of the nine circles 
| ready mentioned has a director to take care of the peach 
of the circle. 1 
Aſter, upon any t emergeney, the votes of the d 
lected, and ſentence e Emperor by his pre 
commits the execution of it to a particular prince or prince 
troops live at free quarter upon the eſtates of the deling! 
and he is obliged to make good all expencesz upon the 
- conſtitution of the Germannic body is of inſelf a ſtudy d 
difficulty. But however plauſibly invented the ſeveral cas 
the imperial power may be, it is certain that the houſe! 
has more than once endangered the liberties of the empire, 
they have been ſaved by the jealouſy of France." At preſen 

_ power, the houſe of Brandenburg, has ſtarted up to dal 
— Auſtrian greatneſs ; and there 7 to be no great apps 

any internal commotions among the princes of the emp 

| cunmſtance that is extremely favourable to the tranquility i 
3 and the intereſt of Great Britain in particular. Before 1 
| head, it may be neceſſary to inform the reader of the wen 
term which has of late ſrequently appeared in the Germat 
I mean that of the Pragmatic Sandjion. - This is no 08 
viſion made by the Emperor Charles VI. for preſerving! 
viſibility of the Auſtrian dominions in the perſon of the 
fcendant of the laſt poſſeſſor, whether male or female. Th 
ſion has been ofcen diſputed by other branches af the 30 


101 


= 2 


have been occaſionally ſupported by France from politi- 
4 though the pragmatic' ſanction is ſtrongly guarantied by 
the powers of Europe. The late emperor, elector of Ba- 

\ the late king of Poland, attempted ts overthrow it; as 
| from the daughters of the emperor Joſeph, elder” 
© Charles VI. It has likewiſe been again and again oppe- 
he coprt of Spain. OE ARR. "i; 
«the territories of the German princes are ſo large as to be 
oickout redrefs when they ſuffer any grievance ; they ma 
to the general diet or great council of the empire for relic 


n Germany are generally the moſt "unhappy z” for” theſe 
afeding the grandeur and ſplendour of the more powerful, 
number and appearance of their officers and domeſtics, in 


drels, and furniture, are obliged to ſupport all this vain 
ud parade at the expence of their vaſſals and dependents. 
pet to the burghers and peaſants of Germany, the former 
places enjoy great privileges; the latter alſo, in ſome parts, 
ance, in Franconia, Swabia, and on the Rhine, are general- 
| people, or perform only certain ſervices to their ſuperiors, 
Ir pay taxes; whereas in the marquiſate of 'Brandenburgh, 
na, Luſatia, Moravia, Bohemia, - Auſtria, &c. they may 
denominated ſlaves, though in different degrees. 


.] The only revenue falling under this head is that of 
ror, who as ſuch has an annual income of about 5 or 6000- 
lerling, ariſing from ſome inconſiderable fiefs in the Black 
The Auſtrian revenues are immenſe, and are thought to a- 
to 7,000,000 ſterling in Germauy and Italy, a ſum that goes 
bole countries. The late King of Pruſſia, whoſe" revenues 
* near ſo extenſive as thoſe of his preſent Majeſty, though 
ſtained a large army, was ſo good an œconomiſt that he left 
oo ſterling in his coffers; and ſome have thought that Sile- 

brings a million ſterling every year to this king. To be- 
| mapnificence of many ot the German courts, a ſtranger is 
eczve very high ideas of the incomes of their princes, which 
Fo the ugh price of money in that country, and conſequent- 
boy priee of proviſions and manufactures. In fact, though it 
| that ſome princes have much larger revenues than others, 
net ſpeak with any tolerable preciſion on a ſubject of ſuch 
— and which comprehends ſo many in- 
ut States, k | 1 ; 


Vm carrying them on, to the ancient German conſtitutions, 
nagement being engroſſed by the head of the houſe of 
* The eleQor of Mentz keeps what is called a matriculation 
egiter, Thich among other letters contains the aſſeſſments 


us money, which every Prince and State, who are 1 


d E R N A N * 19898 


to viceroys, to he oppreſſed and fleeced at pleaſure 3 nor 
in France, the lives and fortunes of the ſubject are entirely 


diſpoſal of the grand monarch, The ſubjects of the petty 


ulaces, gardens, pictures, curiolities, guards, bands of mu- 


) Strength.) During che two laſt wars, very little regard 


- 

, 

1 
. ” 
. 
. 

* 

— —4—k — —ä z —— —__— — _— — — —  _ 7⅛¹ͥ—⁴ — 
— — — — — — - 

I 


* 


; n PORES. AS a 
the field. The contributions in money. are called Nas 
on account. of the monthly aſſeſſments. paid to the « 
they viſited Rome. Thoſe aſſeſſments however ate ſubd 
wutahility. It is ſufficient here to ſay, that upon a mob 
putation the ſecular princes of the empire can bring to4 
379,050 men, and the eccleſiaſtical 74.500, in all —— 
the emperor, as head of the houſe of Aaſt ſtria, is is foppoled 


The eletor of Mentz may maintain al 


— — 
© The elector of Trieps — — — 
The elector of Co . — — — 
- The biſhop of Man 7 — — — 
The biſhop of. Liege, — ö — in 
The archbiſhop o dab — Wy 
The biſhop of Wurtſburg ee — — 
Tbe biſhop of Bamburngz— = - 
The biſhop of Paderborn — — — 
The biſhop of Oſnaburg 0 — — 1 
The abbot of Fulda — — cya 
The other hiſhoprics of the empire —— — 


2 abbies and provoſtihips of the empire 
Total of the eccleſiaſtical princes to 


1 


The emperor, for 2 — 

For Bohemia, Sileſia, aud N 
10 — For Auſtria, and other A 
| The hieg of Pruſſia — | 5 


The elector of Saxon — 5 
The elector Palatine JE I; wn IRS. fo 
The duke of Wirtemburgh — — _ 
The landgrave of Heſſe Cafſel _——— — 
The prince of Baden — — — 
The elector of Hanover 8 
The duke of Holſte in «Gadd — 
The duke of Mecklenburg 1 
The prince of Anhalt A — 
The prince of Lawenbur lk — — 
The elector of Bavaria — — — 
The dukes of Saxony * 8 
The prince of Naſſau — — — 


The other princes and imperial towns 


The ſecular elaces tt —— 
The eceeſialtical princes — 8 


By this computation, which, i is 1 far from being — | 
pears, that the emperor and empire form the molt powerſs 
ment in Europe; and if the whole force was properly c 
an able general, Germany would have nothing 0 tear be 


G 
. e 


«ces of Germany, render the power of the emperor of lit? 
ite, except in regard to his own forces, which are in- 


E <4 - „ , 7 * o . N 
4 Tt; : G : : : 


#4) 


ant Artifcinl. & and other ſprings, anticipated great 
be article, which is of itſelf very copious. Every court of 
aces a cabinet of curioſities, artificial and natural; 
ud modern. The tun ar Heidelburg holds 500 hi 
rally full of the beſt Rheniſh wine, from which 
Fol ſuffered to retire ſober. Vienna itſelf is a curioſity; for 
gte the greateſt variety of inhabitants that is to be met with! 
, as Greeks, Tranfylvanians, Sclayonians, Turks, 'Tar- 
ungarians, Croats, Germans, Poles, Spaniards, French, 
bins, in their proper habits, The imperial Tibrary at Vien- 


im upwards of 85,000 volumes, among which are many va- 
anufcripts in Hebrew, ' Syriac, Arabic, Turkiſh, Arment- 
tic, and Chineſe ; but the antiquity of ſome of them is quei 


441.74 FEISS 


1500 years ago, in gold letters, upon purple. Here are 
nary thouſand Greek, Roman, and Gothic coins and e- 
Ih a vaſt collection of other curioſities in art and nature. 
Gothic palaces, cathedrals, caſtles, and above all, town- 
n Germany, are very curious: they ſtrike the beholder 
idea of rude magnificence ; and ſometimes they Rave an ef- 
6 preferable eyen to Greek architecture. The chief houſes 
cities and villages have the fame appearance, probably, as 
| 400 years ago; and their fortifications generally confiſt of 
nll, trenches filled with water, and baſtions or half-moons. 
to the lakes and waters, the caves and rocks are the chief 
ariolities of Germany. Mention is made of a care, near 


1 


oh many have advanced into it for zo miles; but the moft 
Wie curiofity of that Kind is near Hammelen, about 30 miles 
mover, where at the mouth of a cave ſtands a monument 


in 1284, Though this ſact is very Rrongly atteſted, it 
| Ciſpated by ſome erities. | Frequent, mention is made of 
5 near Blankenburg, exaMly repreſenting two monks in 
per dabits; and of many ſtones which ſeem to be petrifac- 
tes, frogs, trees, and Kae. * 
„ Nal, and ether? The emperor of Germany pretends' 
ar, and Orders, & to be ſucceſſor to the emperors of 
ad has long, on that account, been admitted to a'tacit 
oa all public occafions among the powers of Europe. 
but an archdukedom; nor has he, as the head of that 
ae in the election of emperor, which is lithited to Bohe - 
mwerable are the titles of principalities, dukedoms, ba · 
Al the like, with which he is veſted as archduke. The 

tuperor are a black eagle with two heads, hovering, 


1 1 = 
. o 
= * 


GERM AN Y 57). 
- .- kbours,- But the different” intoreſty purſued by the = 


as ond Curiofitit s, & I have, in defcribing the mineral 


great literary rarity on account of its ancient manifcripts. | 


| particularly a New Teſtanient in Greek, ſaid to have been | 


burg, in Hartz-foreſt, of which none have yet found the 


panemorates the lofs of 130 children, Who were there al- 


with 


o 
. * * 
— — — 

pad — —— 


192 EE = N A 
with expanded wings, in a field of gold; and oper the 
| eagle is ſeen the imperial crown. i, It would be equally 
difficult to enumerate all the different quarteringsandamy 
_ ings of the archducal family. Every Selector, and indi? 
dependent prince of any importance in Germany, clans 
inſtituting orders; but the emperors pretend that they ak 
miſſible unleſs confirmed by them. The emperors-of G 
well as the kings of Spain, confer the order of the Cel 
as deſcended from the houſe of Burgund. 
| There. is a branch of the Knights of Malta in the ener 
2 dominions, who have poſſeſfions in Bohemia, Au 
ia, and Tyrol. The Empreſs Dowager Eleonora, in h 
ed two orders of ladies, who are a fort, to knights: the ir 
the Order of the Slaves of Virtue, becauſe they profek 2 ag 
virtue than others. They are thirty in number, part} 
and part Papiſts. Their badge is à golden medal, repre 
- ſun encompaſſed with a laurel garland, and their motto, $ 
que triumphant. The Emprets is great miſtreſs of the cru 
ſecond. is that of the united cr̃oſs - bearers, founded. by the 
preſs.in 1668; becauſe, when the palace was burnt, a pal 
Fitz, in which they pretend there is à piece. of the croſs 
in the ruins untouched by the flames. They ate all Pax 
wear on their left ſide; a four - cornered croſs, taltened th 
ribbon, at the end of which there's @ ſparkling lar; in th 
there are two wood · coloured lines 3 there are four eagle 
and the motto round it is, Salus & Gloria. Their po 
mother of God and St Joſeph. It was confirmed by Pope 
the biſhop of Vienna is their ſpiritual inſpeckop, and the 
their protectreſs. She made ſeventeen ladies of the order 
FP N 
As for the title of Armiger, or Eſquire, it is not es 
empire. A gentleman in Rn is called Eddellute, a 
fies ſuch as, Nom the blood of their , anceſtors, the favour 
prince, or their own merit, are raiſed above the multitug 
of theſe gentlemen in Franconia, Swabia, and upon the N 
free from taxes and ſubject to no other courts but the Eupen 
have the title of Free Gentlemen, or Ordo Equeltris, 
As the princes of the empire took adyantage of the 
indulgence of the German emperors, to. erect the governm 
held in the capacity of viceroys, or  gavernors, inte int 
principalities ; ſo did the cities now called free and in 1 
emperors, frequently wanting ſupplies of money to cany® 
or for other occaſions, borrowed is ſums of the wealthy 
tons, and paid them again in munificent grants aud! 
making them free ſtates, and independent of the geben 
provinces where they ſtood :, accordingly, theſe cites en 
kinds of ſovereign power; they make laws, conftitute coun 
tice, coin money, raiſe forces, and enter into alliance and 
racies for their defence. They have alſo their ſeats 1 
has been obſerved, only acknowledgin the Emperor l 
preme Lord, and contributing their ſhare towards the cv 
tence of their country. | 


0 1 1 u 4 1 K 


FAS Ky 
©s 1 '$ 


te GERMAN Coty c L's 
opts | 0 18 

— 2 9 

— 818 

— 6 9 


O ERM AN Sv Corus. 


** of Col A 0.8 
e fir Fee of Colog. — — 24 
: 4 0 * or Patagon of Liege x I Eo . + 
r ðͤ K 
of Frankfort . — 4 
14 3 ur of the Palatinate > 27 | — | 0 + 
> a be of Nuremberg — 0 4 
the of Lunenberg ——— — n 9 4 
. — Dollar of Hanover — —— r 
Fo 1 Halden of Hanover — | ks S 
1 | ken of Hanover — — — w 3 
ied th Calden of Hanover 8 5 — 2 * Sy 
80 AG... OR, co 602 
* ten of the Biſhop of Heidelſhe — 04 
4 u, or Guilder of Magdeburg —  — © 2 
» Rix Dollar of Brandenburg — 0.4 
Nees Calden, or Guilder of Brandenburg ——— 0& 2 
Guilder of Brandenburg — — 0 32 
F Guilder of Brandenburg _ —— 011 
{en of the Elector of Saxony. ———== — O©O 2 
* [Bank Dollar of Hamburg — 0 4 
| Dollar of Lubec on —_— — 0 4 
of the late Emperor Leopold = — 0 4 
ar of the Emperor Ferdinand III. ——— o© 4 
of Ferdinand, Archduke, of Auſtria <= 0 4 


þ] The manners of the ancient Germans are deſeribed by 
it and manly pencil of 'Tacitys, the Roman hiſtorian. They 
ave and independent race of men, and peculiarly diſtin- 
jj their love of liberty and arms. They oppoſed the force 
aan empire, not in its origin or in its decline, but after it 
Ind at maturity, and (till continued in its full vigour. The. 
n divided into a number of principalities, independent of 
i though occaſionalix connected by a military union ſor 
| themſelves againit ſug enemies as threatened the liberty 


bot particular a... - Ly princes, to reduce the reſt in- 
until the beginniſdof the ninth century: then it was 
nue, one of thoſe egeentric and ſuperior geniuffes who' 
et up in a barbarous age, firſt extended his military 
i iterwards his civil authority, over the whole of this 
B b nm 


"a1 
. %, 


"I 


ka. 02 0 A+ 4-19. A+ Qu. » +. @> AN = Ca <4, 


1 In this ſituation M many remained, notwithitanding 


- 
= 
—_____  —__CKz ;ꝗœ . —  — r —— 


— ES 


— — — — — 


— — 


" paris TAR "7 eat, — :: ry re ety — — ——— — Ä — — — 
CY 
- 
* | 


— - 
_— — — —L——wñ— 


W 6 E m M A WS 


tereſt and arms, have mounted the thront Or theſe, th 
the houſes of Saxony, Franconia, and Swabia. ben 


them and the popes.” From hence, in the beginning 


at war with the- infidels, and ſometimes, as Mens h 


the right of election; and thoſe now diſtinguilked by th 


of the emperor's ſupremacy, and of the "people's Jurian 


" Hundred: years. His ſucceſſor, Maximilian, married" the? 
Charles, duke of Burgundy, whereby Burgundy, and th 


- abdication of the crown. 


c we ws A 
1 
\ 


"Germany until the year 880, at which time the Ae 
ſumed their original independence, vejected the Cane 

and placed Arnuiph, King of Bohemia, on the throw 
time, Germany has ever been eonfideredas an tle 
Princes of different families/-4ccordinyg to the prevalens 


ſiderable, until the Auſtrian line acquired 'the:imperialy 
emperors coxtain nothing more remarkable than dhe cons 


teenth century, aroſe the factions of the GuelphsandO 
which the former' was attached to the popes, and ce 
emperor z. and both, by their virulence and ieee 
diſquiet the empire for ſeveral ages. The emperors to 


kingdoms, with one another about the ſucceſſion: 
But what more deſerves the attention of a judicions i 
all thoſe noiſy but unintereſting diſputes, is the proprek 
ment in Germany, which was in ſome mealute oppoſe 
the other kingdoms of Europe. When the empire, rail 
maigne, fell aſunder, all the different independent prices 


q 


Electors, had no peculiar or legal influence in appointing all 
the iraperial throne; they were only the officers ofthe king 
his ſecretary, his ſteward, chaplain, marſhal, or maſterofts} 
By degrees, however, as they lived near the king's ert 
like all the other princes, independent territovies belonging 
they increaſed their influence and authority ; and milk 
Otho III. 984, acquired the ſole right of eleamng the 
Thus while in the other kingdoms of "Europe, the ® 
the great lords, who were all originally alle er 1 
barons, was diminiſhed by the power of the king, as nn 

the influence of the people, as in Great Britam; u 
on the other hand, the power of the electors was railed upon 


1440, Frederic III. duke of Auſtria, was elected empery 
imperial dignity continued in the male line of thut Tami 


Provinces of the Netherlands, were annexed to the houſe a 
Charles V. grandſon of Maximilian, and heir to the Bo 
Spain, was elected emperor in the year 1519. Under bit 
and Peru were ' conquered by the Srantabels and in bis 

pened the Reformation in ſeveral parts of Germany, wbich 
was not confirmed by public authority till che year 18 
treaty of Weſtphalia, and in the ran of Ferdinand III. 

of Charles V. was continually diſturbed” by bis Wart . 
man princes and French king, Francis I, "Though err 
beginning of his reign, his good fortune, towards team 
it, began to forſake him; which, with other realons, Nen 


\ 


x 


7 
- 


& E R M AN *. 


x. 

ed th ver, Ferdinand I. who in 1558 ſucceeded to the thrones _ 
ferey moderate Prince - with regard to religion, He had the 

Cu o get his don Maximilian declared king of the Ro- 

one, bis own. life time, and died in 2 By his Jaſt will he 

led that i either his Own male flue, or that of his brother 

lence Gould fall, his Auſtrian eſtates ſhould revert to his ſecond” 

eſe, th Anne, wife to the elector of Bavaria, and her iſſue. 1 

ra + deſtination, as it gave riſe to the late oppoſition made 

he re; - of Bavaria to the pragmatic ſandion, in ſavout of the 


den of Hungary, on the death of her father Charles VI. 
of Maximilian II. was diſturbed with internal commo- 


ſocceeded by his ſon Rogolph, Who was involved in wars 
Hungarians, and in differences with his brother Matthias, 
h be ceded Hungary and Auſtria in his life-time. He was 
in the empire by Matthias, under whom the reſormers, 


ancag themſelves, as to threaten the empire with a civil 
ke ambition of Matthias, at laſt, reconciled them; hut the 
u revolted, and threw. the imperial commiſſaries out of a. 
x Prague. This gave viſe to a ruinous war, which laſled: 
Matthias thought to have exterminated both parties, 


＋ formed a confederacy, called the Evangelic League, which 
ng 20 pterbalanced by a Catholic league. WED | 
Lag las dying in 1618, was fucceeded by his couſin, Ferdinand II. 
of tis! Bohemians offered their crown to Frederic the elector tala- 
erſon, molt powerful proteſtant prince in Germany, and ſon- in- 


s britannic Majeſty James 4. That prince Was incautiqus 


gi 

Ns to accept of the crown.z but he leſt it, by being entirely de- 
| the the duke of Bavaria and the imperial generals atthe battle 
the 4 de, and he himſelf was deprived: of his electorate, the beſt 


which was given to the duke of Bavaria. The proteſtant 
of Germany, however, had among them at this time many 
manders, who were at the bead of armies, and continued 


in 
upon mh wonderful obſtinacy 3 among them were the Margrave 
riſdid Durlach: Chriſtian, duke of Brunſwie, and count Manſ- 


lat was one of the beſt generals of the age. Chriſtian IV. 
Denmark, declared for them; and Richelieu, the French 


„ not fond of ſeeing the houſe of Auſtria aggrandized. 
the fror, on the other hand, had excellent generals ; and Chri- 
nſe of ning put himſelf at the head of the evangelic league, was 
e bn Wy lilly, an imperialift of great reputation in war. Fer- 


ts, that they formed a freſh- conſederacy at Leipſie, of which 


hich kinted Guſtavus Adolphus, king of Sweden, was the head. 
164 aready deſcribed his amazing victories and progreſs, when 
| led at the battle of Lutzen, in 1632. But the proteſtant 
with Abo die with him. He had brought up a ſet of heroes, 


be duke of Saxe Weimar, Torſtenſon, Banier, and others, 
Mite Auſtrian power, till under the mediation of Sweden, 
= peace was concluded among all the powers at war, at 


K 


in invaſion from the Turks but he died in peace, in 1376. 


+ under the names of Lutherans and Calviniſts, were ſo much” 


Made ſo moderate a uſe of his advantages :obtained over the . 


1 


Munſter, in the year 1648 which forms the haf d 
tical ſyſtem of Europe | 
Ferdinand II was ſuceeeded by his fon Ferdinand um 
in 1657, and was ſucceeded by the emperor" Leopold, x 
amiable, and not very fortunate prinee. He had t 
to contend with, France on the one fide; andthe Tak 
ther; and was a loſer in his war with both. Prader wal 
Allace, and many other frontier places of the empire; add 
would have.taken Vienna, had not the ſiege been raid 
Sobieſki, king of Poland. Prince Eugene, of ge w 
adventurer in arms about the year 1697 1 and being ms 
_w_ generals, gave the Turks the firſt checks they i 
Hungary. The empire, however, could/norhave wil 
power of France, who purſued their conqueſts with fu 
that the other powers of Europe were alarmed, and 2 gm 
_ deracy, conliſting of the empire, Great-Britaing the Dur 
William prince of Orange, and the Northern "powers 
to check the progreſs of the French, and render ori 
tious plan contrived by Lewis XIV. for founding an un 
narchy, At laſt, however, à peace was concluded = 
1697 and tw6 years after, the Turks conſented 30 f yet 
was ſigned at Cartowitz in 1699. The Hungarians, & 
couraged by the French, and exaſperated by theunleeling 
of Leopold, were ſtill in arms, under the protedion tt 
when that prince died in 179t..tt. 
He was fucceeded by his ſon Joſeph, who put dhe eledt 
| Jogne and Bavaria to the ban of the empire but benz 
ved by prince Lewis of Baden, general of the ef, W 
rty recovered their affairs, no withſtanding their repeat 
he duke of Marlborough had not all rhe ſucces he expat 
ſerved. Joſeph himſelf was ſuſpected of a'debgnrodubven 
mannie liberties ; and it was plain by his condy@, "that i 
England ſhould take the labouring oar in the war, Weh 
entirely carried on fur his benefit. The Englilly were Un 
his ſlowneſs and ſeltiſnneſs; but he died in #9" deſore b. 
duced the Hungarians ; and leaving no male ue, hews 
ed in the empire by his brother, Charles VI. W de 
endeavouring to place on the throne of Spain, in * 
lip, duke of Anjou, grandſon to Lewis KV. 
When the peace of Utrecht took place in % Un 
made a ſhew as if he would continue the war, but ſound u 
able, now that he was forſaken by the Engliſh. Ie then 
obliged to conclude a peace with France at Baden in 171 
might attend the progreſs of the Turks in Hungary, wa 
. ceived a total defeat from prince Eugene, at the bats 
| Fadin. They received another of equal importance ow 
general in 1717, before Belgrade, which fell inte ine kn 
1mperialifts; and next year the peace of Paſſarowitz, 
and the Turks, was concluded. Charles employed even 
his leiſure in making arrangements for inertaſing and 1 
| hereditary dominions in Italy and the Mediterranean- 
him, the crown of Britain devolyed to the houſe of 


.. 4 


CEN WW ANY 11 
9 — on: II. in the empire. Charles was 
'bis, and carried matters with ſo high a hand, chat about 
1924 and 1755, breach enſued between him andGeorge L 
on affairs all over E at that 
teady was the ſyſtem of affaj over Europe | 
the capital powers oſten changed their old alliances, and 
| new ones contradictory to their intereſt. Withom enter- 
particalars, it is ſuſicient to obſerve, that the ſufety of 
and its ag randizement, Was the main object of che Bri» 
z that of rhe emperor was the eſtabliſhment of the prag» 
n, in ſavour of his daughter, the preſent empreſs/queen, 
no male iſſne. Mutual conceſſions upon rhoſe great points, 
þ good underſtanding between George IL and the emperor 
and the elector ot Saxony being prevailed, upon by the 
of gaining the throne of Poland, relinquiſhed the great 
had upon the Auſtrian ſueceſſu n. 
pero. after this, had very bad ſueceſi in a war he enter - 
+ the Turks, Whien he had undertaken chiefly to indem - 
if for-the- great ſactificey he had made in Italy to the 
of the houſe of Bourbon, Prince Eugene was then dead, 
had no general to ſupply his place. The ſyſtem of France, 
under Cardinal Fleury, happened at that time to be parci» 
he obtained tor him, from the Turks, a better peace than 
reaſon to expet, Charles, to keep the German and other 
b powers eaſy, had, before his death, given bis eldeſt daugh- 
preſent empreſs-queen, in marriage to the duke of Lorrain, 
who could bring no-acceſſion ot power to the Auſtrian fa- 
ales died in 1740. us. | | 
u n0 ſooner in the grave, than all he had 9 
have been overthrown, had it not been for the $s of 
ll, The pragmatic ſanction was attacked on al hands, 
ag king ot Pruſſia entered, and conquered with an irreſiſt 
, Sileſia, which he ſaid, had been wrongfully diſmembered 
family. The king of Spain and the elector of Bavaria ſer 
directly incompatible with the pragmatic ſanction, and in 
were joined by France; though all thoſe powers bad ſo- 
quarantied it, The -imperial throne, after a confiderable 
vas filled up by the elector of Bavaria, who took the title 
a VII. in January 1742. The French poured their armies 
la, where they took Prague; and the queen of Hungary, 
Wt the weight of Pruſſia, was forced to cede to that prince | 
Tuble part of the duchy of Sileſia by a formal treaty. 
my, her beauty, and ſufferings, and the noble fortitude 
d ſhe bore them, touched the hearts of the Hungarians, 
* arms ſhe threw! herſelf and her little ſon z and though 
deen always remarkable for their diſaffection to the houſe 
they declared unanimouſly in her favour. Her generals 
de French out of Bohemia; and George II. at the head of 
a and Hanoverian army, gained the battle of Dettingen, 
Charles VII. was at this time miſerable on the imperial 
2 bave given the queen — Hungary — ber 
a out the haughtily and i itically rejected all accom - 


: 

' 

l 

; 

| 

f 

: 

1 
1 | 

. 

. 

: 

: 


WW 0&3 MW a We 
| modativn, though adviſed to it by his Britantie wich 


. died; and the duke of Lorrain, then grand 
uſc 


der the mediation of his Britannie majeſty, dy winch the 


_ cany, for emperor. The war, however, contigned in 


Chapelle, in April 1748. ö By that treaty, Sileſia was on 


| ſeated the imperial general Brown at the battle of Lowolith 


and indeed only friend. This obſtinacy gave 3 colour ww] 
of Pruſſia to invade Bohemia, under pretence of Cupporing 
perial dignity : but though he took Prague, and fubdu«d 
eſt part of the kingdom, he was not ſupported by the Fu 
on which he abandoned all his conqueſts, and retired to U, 
event. confirmed the obſtinacy of the queen of Hungary, 

to an accommodation with the emperpr, chat ſhe-might 
leſia, Soon after, his imperial majeſiy, in the begins 


any, conſort to the queen of Hungary, after furm 

difficulties, was choſen emperor, | _ 

The bad ſucceſs of the allies agaiaſt the French and By 
the Low Countries, and the Joſs of the battie a Fontency, 
ed the operations of the empreſe - queen against die rute 
The latter beat the emperor's brother, prince. Charles of 
who had before driven the Pruſſians out of Bohemia; and 
duct of the empreſs- queen was ſuch, that his Britannie majelyt 
Proper to guarantee to him the poſſeſſion of giſeſia, a8 ceded 
ty. Soon after, bis Pruſſian majeſty: pretended that he hu 
vered a ſecret convention which had been entered into hay 
empreſs-queen, the empreſs of Ruſſia, and the ag of Fd 
elector of Saxony, to ſtrip him of his domimians, an i dnt 
among themſelves. Upon this his Pruſſian majeltyy very lu 
drove the king of Poland out of Saxony; defeated his tro 
took poſſeſſion of Dreſden; which he held till a treaty was 


Pruſſia acknowledged the duke of Lorrain, now great dule 


Countries, not only ts the diſadvantage, but tothe dige 
Auſtrians and Dutch, till it was fimiſhed by de ra & 


guaranted to the king of Pruſſia. It was not/long belore 
narch's jealouſies were renewed and verified z d dhe 
Ruſſia's views falling in with thoſe of the empreli-queet,! 
king of Poland, who were unnaturally ſupported by Franc 
new ſchemes, a freſh war was kindled in che empire: 
Pruſſia declared againſt the admiſſion of the Ruſlan's mw 
and his Britannic majeſty againſt that of the French! Ups 
two principles all former differences between thele monare 
forgotten, and the Britiſh parliament agreed to pay ana 
fidy of 670,000 l. to his Proflian majeity during the comm 
the war. | „ li 
The flames of war now broke out in Germany with great 
and more deſtructive violence than ever. The armies& 8 
majeſty, like an irreſiſtible torrent, burſt into Saxony; 


the Saxons to lay down their arms, though almoſt impreg® 
tified at Pirna, and the elector of Saxony fled to his regu & 
in Poland. After this, his Pruſſian majeſty was put to the 
the empire; and the French poured, by one quarter, ther 
as the Ruſſians did by another, into the empire · Tye 6 


* 


CE & # V4 
. majeſty on this occaſion is che moſt amazing that is to 
u in hiſtory. He broke once more inte Bobemia with an 
rapidity, and defeated an army of near 100,000. Au- 
ein was on the fide of the Pruſſians, He then we 
id pied it with a- molt wemendous artAlery ; but jult as 
begioning to imagine that his troops were invincible, they 
Gated at Collin, by the Auſtrian general Daun, and obliged 
the ſiege, and to fall back upon -Eiſenach. The operations 
now multiplied every day. This defeat was far from in- 
pg the pruſſian monarchy” he ſoon after attacked the com- 
r of France and the empire, at Roſbach, and obtained a 
ritory, ſeized their baggage, with 164 pieces of cannon. 
cy was ſoon· after followed by another, not lefs important; 
attacked the grand Auſtrian army at Liſſa, and totally de- 
dem; after this the Pruſſtans took Breſlau, and obtained 
great advantages. The Ruſſians, after entering Ger- 
zue à new turn to the aſpect of the war; and the cautious 
ring genius of count Daun, laid his Pruſfian majeſty un- 
ite dificulties, notwithſtanding all bis amaring victories. 
he defeated the Kuſſians at Zorndorf; but an attack made 
b army; in the night time, by count Daun, at Hockkirchen, 
poſt proved fatal to his affairs, tbough he retrieved them 
Iirable preſence of mind. He was obliged, however, to 
Sony, for the ſafety of Sileſta; and it has been obſerved, 
periods of hiſtory afford ſuch room for reflection as this 
gu cid; fix fieges were raiſed almoſt at the fame time ; that 
erg, by the Ruſſians ; that of Leipſic, by the duke of Deux- 
who commanded the army of the empire ; that of Dreſden, 
n; thoſe of Neiſs, Cofel, and Torgau, by the Auſtrians. 
ty obliges me to omit many capital ſcenes which puſſed at the 
me in Germany, between the French, who were driven out 
ner, aud the Engliſh, or their allies. The operations on 
les are of little importance to hiſtory,” becauſe nothing was 
at was deciſive, though extremely bardenſome and bloody to 
Pritain, It falls more within my plan to mention the ingra- 
df the empreſs-queen to his Britannic majeſty, and bis allies 
aerals, who were threatened with the ban of the empire. The 
b dad taken poſſeſſion of all the kingdom of Pruſſia, and laid 
dColberg,. the only port of his Pruſſian majeſty in the Baltic. 
. he had entertained too mean an opinion of the Ruſſians, 
bon found them by far the moſt formidable enemies he had, 
| vere advancing, under count Solticoff, in a body of 100,000 
d dilefia, In this diſtreſs he acted with a courage and reſo- 
lat bordered upon deſpair, but was, at laſt, totally defeated 
biſlans, with the lofs of 20,000 of his beſt men. in a battle 
dort. He became now the tennis - ball of Fortune Suc- 
| Gfeats ſcemed to anounce his ruin, and all avenues towards 
ere ſhut up. He had Joſt, ſince the firſt of October 1756, 
marſhal Keith, and 40 brave generals, beſides thoſe who 
Mnc'd and made priſoners. At Landſhut the imperial gene- 
«aun, deleated his army under Fouquet, on which he had 


- {5 great 


3-424 -LFI $4 


28 


I 


— . — 


p 7 to Sileſia. None but his Pruſan ma would han 
2 the war under ſuch repeated loſſes ; but 


inhabitants under pecuniary contributions; but towards 
the campaign, he defeated the imperialiſts in the battled 
tion the king of Pruſſia had ever been engaged i, birh 


day from Ruſlia, the taking of Colberg by the Rute 
ruin, when his moſt formidable enemy, the empreſt uf ki 


The deaths of thoſe illuſtrious perfanages were followed 


of Huhertſburg, which ſeeured to his Pruſſian majelly the 


Eaſt; by Auſtria and Bavaria on the South ; and 


Ps 


* 


1 
dependinee, and thereby opened to the Auſtrian 


received to give him freſh ſpirits. It is not 
2 to account for the inactivity of his enemies after" 
Frankfort, but by the jealouſy which the imperial guy 


tained of their Ruſſian, lies. They had taken Berlin, af 


which count Daun was wounded This was the bel 


10,000 of his beſt troops, and was attended with nom 
quences in his favour. New reinforcements Which n 


Schweidnitz by the Aultrians, was on the points df cb 


3. 1762; George II. had died on the agth of 
1700. 1 1 


conſequences. The Britiſh miniſtry of George III. fan 
the war with honour, and the new emperor of Ruff 
armies. - His. Pruffian ' majeſty was, notwithſtanding, 1. 
reduced by his loſſes, that the empreſs- queen, probably, 
compleated his deſtruction, had it not been for-the wiſe! 
neſs. of the other German princes, not to annibilate th 
Brandenburg. At firſt the empreſs- queen rejected all u 
ed to her, and ordered 30,000 men to be added to ha 
The viftble backwardnefs of her generals to execute her ar 
new ſucceſſes obtained by his Pruſſian majeſty, at laſt 
her to agree to an armiſtice, which was ſoon followed by 


of Sileha, Upon the death of the emperor, her hulbandy 
her ſon Joſeph, who had been crowned king: of the Romans 


FP 
_ 
_—— 


TuE KINGDOM OF BOHENI 


 $1Tvarroun 4½ ENT 
Miles. * Degreen 
Length zoo) between 54% and 52 North ind 
Breadth my 2. and 19 Ealt longiue 


ö 2OUNDED by Saxony! and Brand 
Bountaries.] the — 4 Poland and ER 


of Bavaria, on the Weſt ; comprehending 4+ ohe 
2. Sileſia; and, 3. Moravia, | 


uy 0 1 © M r Af 2 
c 1259. 127 e eee vie foie oem 
Pres, n 1 4% 14 48 


4 Konin e a7 "el 
10 tbe () Clatz, fabjes to the King of Pen. bar 


tri Egra, W . 
J Breſlau, E. lon. 86-50, N. lat. . 2p | 
abe] Croſſen, 22 Fey 1 n 


ting of Jagendorf, 8. 
. Tropaw, 8. fubjea to * houſe of Avftria. 
{ Teſchen, 8. ſubhecr to the houſe of Auſtria, 


; : 1 KR * 
5 . )( Olmutz, 11 lon. e * 49-40. 0 bits 
— Brin, midd le. bh. 0 Ant 7; 103 | vs. 
houſe Igla, 8. W. | * | r 71916 4 Kers 14d 


a» 


ns. ] Bohemia is OT 50 mountains oy! woods, 
bone divided aero — by a chain he OY I. 


] The 3 rivers are; 1. The Eibe; 2. The Oder; | 
Mulda, which generally run from 8. to N. their courſes 

den deſcribed already; 4. The Eger, which runs from W. 
1 falls into the Elbe; 5. The Moraw, which ru oo N. 

ug Moravia, and falls into the Danube; 6. The Igla, 

The Teya, which run from . vey "_ uniting — 

into the Moraw. 


ed we vial wnhealthfal, e 
ntains —— ——_— | 


Jer £46.85: i. * 43-5 

Produc.) The ſoit | produce eon, who 1 

x, timber, and fruit in abundaneh i they Rave a 

horſes, which are often bought up ti remount the French 
and they have great plenty of game and wild fowl. There 
E of cheir mountains are 
and Manifadtures,] No country in — has richer 
lilver, quickſilver, copper, iron, lead, Sur and ſalt- 


principal manufadure n of which they export 
by map and kies conſiderable ee 
b, an 8 


n.] The oled of the government is at preſent an 
2 monarchy, of which the Empreſt · Queen is no- 
The States * Balrmia indeed are ſumm̃oned, for 
one year, by the command of the queen, and meet at 
they conſiſt of the cler g nobility, gentry, and repreſen- 
* _ Here 42 2 ſrom the Sovereign lays: 
ile neceſſuy of granting ſacks ſapplies as the court de- 

Ce a l 9 


* - — 


4 


= n % .« 


| mands, which uſually amouat cn e very great ſum; ay 
granted withgut heſpration or examination, = they ſong 
- Preſs their concern at the abſence. of their en adi 
ved that their country — e 

F o. "If ai Lid 


POS, Bohemia PR} i 
a 
moved, a paſſing i in ſaltier, crowneds a rag 


Mailt vad Vaſals.3 There-ars the Game Jegrots o 0 
as in Germany, but the farmers and huſbandmen gn thert 
vaſſals. Here is no middle ſtate, every lord i kind off 
and their tenants little better than ſlabets having do 


lands the — — | Cn IC one' of the 5 | 


preſent | 1 * . | Jt 1 | 

W Her enen raiſed by the fg gh | 
who are aſſembled annually at Prague,-t0.-provide fuck ln 
empreſs demands of them, over. and- Ai the ea 


dos is A by ter eee N 
e e eee bee , ond * WY RE, * 
tain, account of the preſent population of Bobemiay-about1 


ago, it was computed to contain '$y4000,000 lababitantss4 
thought at preſent not to be fo numerous. The Beben 
perſons, habits, and manners, reſemble the Germans..1! 
ranks are accuſed of being addicted to pilfering and tape 
But though the Bohemians, at preſent, are not bemalt 
for arts or arms, yet they formerly diſtinguiſed themlehy 
moſt intrepid aſſertors of civil and religious liberty in Eur 
neſs the early introduction of the reformed religion into tis 
youu when it was ſearcely knows in any athef, the- nai 

feats they gave to the Auſtrian power, and their gen 
gles for independency, Their vittues may be — 
cauſes of their decay as no means were-Jeft,unemplge 
deſpotie maſters for breakin ng their ſpirit ; thaugh it in cem 
internal jealouſies and diſſentions greatly contributed 
E. Their cuſtoms and e =o the fame ws in G 
Cities * Towns. 1 Dudens, Fs 135 piral of Bohemia 10 
fineſt and moſt magnificent cities in Europe, and famons id 
ble bridge, which is 18go"feer- long, and 64 feet broad; # 
of 16 arches, and is on each ſide with 28 flatuest 
Its circumference is ſo large, that the grand phie ang 
laſt ſiege, never could completely invell | it. For this re 
able to make a vigorons defence in aſe of a,wegular begs 
Habitats, however, are thought not ro bezpraportionss1 
ciouſneſs, being thought, not co exered 70,006 Cine . 
13, 00 Jews. It contains ga churches aud chapels Ved. ; 
ters. At is a place o little vi no wade and therefore bt! bo 
inhabitants ark not wealthy s but the Jews are H e "G. 
4 tr 


Kc 


111 


— 


«4 .— — EEESECS . —-— — TY 4 
— — - D—— — 


- 


1 22 7 1 BH. 


4, but they ate remat kabie either for Rrchg 
ae x her 3 — of Moravia! it i well 


jo rr of woolen, iron, glaſs, paper, > and git 


WE LN e iat] 5 obey 49287 


1 il a Kanes $f che vol) 
whe rp hi the N mati, or 400 * 75 Sect Too 
, 


br is of the towing! Heng 7 Os aſh „ Kere. 5 4 
oy [ze inen fe; priid 7 ralouſztii toe'; bade wilt 

2 bleb naſh ved hi de nant anyeſes ; tbe 

fab! mi od put thyime vimitum na/him ; uvody noſz v 

j dhe 2haviſhnaſs ode 2leb0 ; 9 . * We. 1 te 


ul. Amen. 5 1 A 


FC 14 


vs.) The tabtithet ugs. in turd ofthe Morel . 


8 - C . 
2% [gy 


W N and Moravia, is Rill Popety; 8 there are 
1 Ye of es that call thewſelyes Proteſtants id ordvia z ſorae 
* m entertain very ſhocking notions' of the Chriſtian religion 


je htelj made proſelytes in Great Britain. They Rave 
þ.houſe in London, and have obtained * an at of parame 


e N 1 
I in, | 6 


my | | 
„ bepricr and Biſheprics. J. "The only Arch onrke | in Keke 

= of A. ae the; b rics are e Kere 

| | "4 . _ { air + T 4” 49 yy 


i AMT 16 5 I Th 


1 Fog he nh po 8 75 
5 q 2 The coins are the fame as 6: q 3 ce * 


tercof they are already . 


VOLUTIONS any MEMO RAB LE EVENTS... 


OS tobemians are faid to be dcloended from: i e u jhopie | 
Gaul, who retired thither when the Romans, huder Julius | 

made 2 conqueſt of that country. They were.a conſiderable | 
erned by dukes ; Uldeſlaus II. was the firſt king of Bohe- 
bd aſcended the throne anno 1086. The Bohemian nobility 
i their prince, though the emperors of Germany fome- 
* apoſ:d a king upon them, and at length uſurped that throne 
"> $igifmannd, king of Hungary, Aud afterwards empe 
upon the throne of Bohemia, when {ori Hufs'and Jerome 
Par, two of the firſt reformers, were burnt at the Council of 


„ a200 1414, though the emperor bad given them his pro- 


beeaſioned an inſurrection i Bobemiu: the people of Pragye 
R N $ officers out of the wiadows O the councit-cham- 
broke their necks; the famous Ziſca, aſſemblin an kreny 
2 bohemians, defeat the emperor”s' forces p 
„ and drove the ithperialiſts. out of che kingdom. Lor 
wperor. able to W that kingdom for — 4 
* 


„„ BH y 1 of 4 
EFI by their own. Ee aſter 
ſexere perſecution, and che emperor eli 


. 1609, ehe Protellancs of G 4. il 
racy, called, The Union, or Evangelical 
bar N IV. Elector Palatine, TY head, whe 
eſtants of Bohemia. joined 

161 6, advanced his couſin edis to yy throws 
d cauſed kim to be crowned and recognized by oe 
ingdom 3, but he reſiding at Gratz in Stivia; and 
teſtants to be oppreſſed 50 perſecuted by the 
elected the el br Palatine, head of the 
many, their King. (This prince married what 
daughter of James I. king © England, wig 


gels Sophia of n This, prince Fah, 
Ka of Bohemia, the emperor's generals invadedand 


" 


ſans, 


palatinate, while the duke of Bavaria, with anf 
the elector into Bohemia, and, in f battle near? Las 
entirely 8 bim; he was deprived'of hi 
all his dominions, whereupon he fled" meas 
reed to depend on the court of Euglang | 
family not being reſtored until the treaty of Wah UW 
. barter arm Rupert and prince Maurice, his ſong, es 
arles's army, during the civil wars in Engle 
The emperors of have had the — | 
ever fince, until the king of Pruſſia invaded ng&Rns 
of Sileſia, in 1941, which has been 2 to h 
2 and probably the reaſon why the ki . Plat 
oft was, that the proteſtants of Sileſia hl | 
eres e TR v4 + — 


a + 
HAT par 
„ TJ 4 1 of Hugs 7 Me 2 


Traifylyania, Sagen Croatia, Morlach 
Temeſwar, and other countries) is bounded by 
North; by Tranſylvania and Walachia, Eaſt; by clara 
and by Auſtria and Moravia, Weſt. ;: Fi 
The general diviſion of Hungary, is into Upper es 
nn and Lower Hungary e E 1 


= — or — 4 . 
we 


Fi q N 
4 * * X 
* . k . 0 | : , A 1 
- \ . * 
8 0 * a 


Ther 
= 
9 


y - _ 
l i 
” 
* — 
8 
« 
* 
= 


Y 


* 
* 8 
= o = 


— ä 
* 
= 


— 


* = = 
- 7 


\ % ” 
| »y 


A 


S&T 1 


\ - 


err np = N 
l Meth 4. 
| = ' youu” _ o7 a 3 
Mell e e 


=— = uw... 4 »& Y 


— * 
CY _— 
* 0 
— — — 
; 4 4 
- y 2 
n m 
| — 
Fi . 


. 


„ U W o A R * 2% 
1 ſhoes. Their chief towns being Treſpurg aud 


1 IR l . tr OS 2S15 70 wt: „ WEE we {ora ** 


Proj The air ,.and, conſequently hacclieate X 

parts of Rs 3 Rad an be mate as 
was lakes, Reged eee — 

ing. mountainous and e the air is lx cet ar 


No country in the world can boaſt a pea py 
e 300 miles A ar Preſburg 2 
Trp eſeulent plant tobacco, ſaffron, — 
millet, 3 delicious Ae — — 


mulberr . cheſnuts, 
BS Te ee ae 


gel e Ek Dank, e E 8 and the 

St V1 "an 1 
Ne | 

ee Kveral lakes, — Gs among 

at mountains of conſiderable extent, and aboundi ling 

we H arian baths and mineral waters are eſtee 

| — 7 nk in Europe; but their, magnificent build- 

by 79 Turks when in poſſeſſion of the country, parti- 

of Buda, are ſuffered ene Ar 1a 


81g 
] The Carpathian movataing, "which Aide Hnngory 
on the North, are the chief in Hungary, though many 
puntains are found in the country, as the Benikova, 
d feet poogdicube be ight. Their tops are generally 
wood, and on * n. F the —— Daune 10 


11 155 2 


| Mineral] Hungary, is 1 well, Koche wich 
bounds not only with gold and ſilver mines, but with 
ent copper, vitriol, iron, orpiment, quickſilver, ery- 
terra ſigillata. Before Hungary became the ſeat of de · 
between Turks and Chriſtians, or fell under the pow- 
puſe of Auſtria, thoſe mines were furniſhed with proper 
; — and produced vaſt revenues to the native princes. 
gold and ſilver employed mint - houſes, not only in 
in Germany, and the continent of Europe but all 
ae now greatly diminiſhed in their value, their work 
ed or demoliſhed-; ſome of them en aun. . 
emolument of the natives. * 


and Animal produGtions.)] — is rr, for 2 
If horſes, generally mouſe-coloured, and higkly eſteem- 
— that great numbers of them are exported. 
emarkable breed of large rams in the neighbourhood of 
lts other vegetable and animal productions are in gene · 
vith thoſe of er and the cog coun · 
tries. 


„ 


of 9 99 
* » . Hy 


1 * == = 7. — TER 

1 1 * * 0 A * * 
8 2 ro thoſe of any other. country, 3 ut wy in E 
RR e Ale, A 
mie Northern barbarians Wrove 4 
| "Me of the deſcendants 6F thelr” 58 


The Hungaries at . 0 2 ar 
are l to contain about two millions and à half of l 


The Hungarians have manners pecullar 0 chemie 1 
ER thee a being deſcended frot-thoſe — with 9 
| x ;bulwark of Chriſtendom againſt the ipÞdels. In their pe e 8. 
n are well made. Their fur-gaps, their cloſe-bodied coats, ol 
2 fh xn their cloak or mantle; which isfs contrived; as Wrap 
, bdnd"iey be alway — 


s rherr an air 6f military dignity; The wen Have the 
| ebe erer Kerr Pere their whifkers on their 1 
PM Their uſuuſ arms are à broad ſworch and a kind of poll: 
their fire-arms. The ladies att reckoned haridfomer th: 
_ Auſtria, and their ſable dreſs with Neves ſtrait to their: 
| their flays fastened before with gold; pearl, br" diamohd 
teens, are well known te the Freneh and Englith*fadics: 
; aud women in w. * they call the mine towns, wear fur, 
dreſſes. The inns upon the roads are molt mil 
"ves, and even thoſe feldom te he met with; Their ho 
ield the chief animal food for their peafants, and their pe 
in the ſame” apartment with their” owners. The gout, 1 
ver, owing to the unwholefomencſsof the dir, are the 5 
diſeaſes in Hungary. Phe natives in general are indo 
leave trade and manuſactures t& the Gree ky-and other firs 
died in their country, the flatneſs of Which renders trave 
| modions, either by land or water. The dwerfions of the 
are of the waylike and athletic kind,” They ate in gene | 
* and magnanimous people. Their aneeſftorty even ſinch . 
1g ing of the preſent century, Were w jealous of their lit 
1 rather than be tyrannized over; by the houſs cf Auſtria, . 
ſubmitted Gat of Othman ; but "their" fidelity” to the x 
n;” during her diſtreſo, „ «wen 94. . 


ind (; 
3 10 lc 
need 


prefs-quee . 
they received from — W vnde Ways ee nun 
{ honour.” * . — bo. TE 


| Auliquities 9 8 _ Some of th e 
country are nr their baths, no gra mines! 

, of Eſseck, built over the Danube and Draven and the 
marſhes, is five miles in length, and has towers ar ever! 
| A wile'y diſtance, and is paſs that has been much Th 
1 2 There is a 


LT S023» | _W 
mile long. between, Duda and Feſt fand there 
l remaining, that excedds any thing of the kind is 
Tec! {qnare piles or pillars. of ſtone, one hundred: teen 

reof contained ſixty feet on every Jider:of the 
Lance between every one of theſe pillars was dne bun- 
brent) feet, joined b arches, with this inſeription, PRO 
bis AUG; VERE IFIC1S, VIRTUS ROMANA 
ww DOMAT ? SUB, JUGUM: ECCE, RAPITURED 
5: and, to perpetuate the memory of this frutture, fil 
ue llamped with the inſeription DANUBIU B.. 
+; of Buda have been mentioned already, as the moſt 
En Europe; and theſe mines in the Carpathian, moun - 
devery kind of metal, g | | WOT" 
kl. a better account may be collected of eight emperors 
from the medals and inſcriptions. found in Hungary, 
been given by any hiſtorians.  Zamoſius relates, chat there 
v be met with here, that give ug the portraimees of Lyſi- 
Alexander: the Great, Philip of Matedon, and Darius. 
re found uear the town of Deva a great quaatity of ancient 


8 
1 
| 


on one ſide the image of Jyyfimachus, and on the reverſe, 
md with the medals. was found a golden ferperit/y 1's 


2 mountain near Szelitze'; the aparture of this eavern, 
es the South, is eighteen fathoms high, and eight broad; 


eous paſſages conſiſt entirely of falig- rock, ſtretehing a- 
po, the height is found to be go fathoms, and the breadth 


m article in natural philoſophy. - Aſtoniſhing rocks are 
n Hungary, and ſome of its churches are of admirable ar- 
je.) The language of the Hungarian is peculiar to this 
l comes neareſt the Hebrew, which is governed by points 
mats, as this is; but the meaneſt of, che people ſpeak a kind 
bus Latin, by which they entertain a correſpondence with 
$and Germans. The Pater - noſter mn the Hungarian lan- 
s follows: My at yank ki vagi a menneyekben ſzente/teſſet 
word j cijæn el a te orſzagod leg yen meg a te akeratod mint 


ſea/1 reg ami vetkeinket mikeppen mijis meg, bokſatunk azotnak 
elenſunk vetenet es ne vigy nankſt a kifertebo ſzabadies meg min- 
au, mert tied az orſanag as batalom es. diefoſeg mind erak» 


F 91 3 g 5 v 100 

The eſtabliſhed religion here is the Roman Catholic z 
lites of Bohemia propagating their religion here in the 
Rnury, and the Lutherans in the fixteenthy there are a 
aber of Prataſtants in this kingdom, divided into a multi 
ab however,” they uſually . 
| | Y 


= 


„ each of them , weighing two or three crowns a- piece, 


the wolt remarkable natural curioſities of Hungary, is a 


ber South than has been yet diſeovered pas far as it is prac- 


py other wonderful particulars are related of this cavern, - 


Wit e feldenis a mi mindennaps henyerutted- ad meg netunk 


”d HU 8 & Xx RY 
fſeldorn fad to join the Turks you Chriſtians, 
| quarter from Infidels that fem bigstted -Papits, ü 
reign ;; but the empreſs-queth' having promiſed the! 
reſtoration of their ancient rights and privileges, and i 
a toleration of their religion, they exerted "themithves N 
I the war of 1142, | 199 Wong md Fagknt 2608 
_ 7 Notwithſtanding the Auſtrian government is like dhe 
late monarchy, yet the Hungarians continue among 
ſtraints upon the Sovereigt's power, having a kind d 
and national eburts of couneib and juſtice, Which 2 
enna: moreover every royal town las its ſenate aul 
officer s.. , Aan en ene 


* Cities,” Towns, Forts, and other) Theſe are pi 
"3. Edifices, public and private, 4-7 from their anc 
cence, but many of the fortifications are till very firoy 
in good order. Preſburg, though the capital of "the 
neither large, well built, nor well fortified. ' On wil 
town, ſtands the caſtle, in which the Hungarian Regal 
Budaz-formerly the capital of Hun , retains little d 
agnificence, but its ſtrength and fortiſications, and tt 
be ſaid of Peſt, which lyes on the oppoſite ſide of the D 
is likewiſe a ſtrong city, as is Gran and Comorra. Toch 
already — for the excellency of its wines. 
anon 1 7 ' ET Figs ww & # & 
Commerce and manuſacturet.] Having already mention 
tural produce of the country, all I can add is, that the > 
factures and exports of the natives, conſiſt of metal, 


Conſtitution and government.] The Hungarians diſſike 
queen, and call their preſent ſovereign king T erefa, Ide 
ment preſerves the remains of many checks upon the ry 
They have a diet or parliament, a Hungary-office, which 
our chancery, and which reſides at Vienna; as the 
council, which comes pretty near the Britiſh priyy=cound 
4 municipal juriſdiQion, does at Preſburg- Every rojs 
its ſenate; and the Geſpan chafts teſemble our juſtices a 
| Beſides this, they have an exchequer and nine chambers, 4 
ſubordinate courts. r N 


Ls 
= 
, 
. 9 
- „ 
. 


* 10 _ ( | . 
' Military ſtrength.) The empreſs-queen can bring to th 
any time, 50, ooo Hungarians in their own country, 1 
draws out of it above 20,000; theſe are generally light 
| well known to modern times by the name of Huſſars. Th 
near ſo large as the German horſe z and therefore the bun 
vpon their ſhort ſtirrups when — ſtrike. Their exp 
alertneſs has been found ſo ſer viceab 8 the he 
ers in Europe have troops that go by ame name 
are called pandours and croats, — wear feathers in ther 
cording to the number of enemies they pretemd to have un 
dorſe and foot are / an excellent militia, very" of 
y <4 


dich 
8 
| ala 


W. 


1 


— 
P bh - =Y 9 . 4 * 
R n 2 n 9 x 

> . - . n = 


„* | 
fwgiry was formerly remarkable for its coinage, and 
rant in the cabinets of the curious, a complete ſeries 


| their former kings. More Greek and Roman medals 
dikorered in this country, than perhaps in any other in 


Gord Coins. Long” F J. 83 
Docts— — — 0 18 7 
Ducats — „ pap 9 9 31 , 


Sure Coins, the lame as in Germany. 


The empreſs- queen, for armorial enfigns, bears quarter- 
argent, and gules of eight pieces. | | | 


0 The Huns, after ſubduing this country, - communicated 
to it, being then part of the ancient Fannonia. Hun- 
formerly an aſſemblage of different Rates, and the firſt 
ed the title of king, was Stephen, About the year 10007 
braced Chriſtianity. About the year 1310, king Charles 
nded the throne, and ſabdued Bulgaria, Servia, Cron- 
tia, Sclavonia, and many other provinces; but many. 
aqueſts were afterwards reduced by the Venetians, Turks, 
r powers. In the th century, Hunniades, who was 
to the infant king Ladiſlaus, bravely repulſed the Turks, 
led Hungary; and upon the death of Ladiſlaus, the Hun- 
0 1438, raiſed Matthias Carvinus, ſon to Hunniades, to 
ne. Lewis, king of Hungary, in 1526, was killed in a 
puting againſt Solyman, emperor of the 'Vurks, This bat- 
nolt proved fatal to Hungary, but archduke Ferdinand, 
Nhe emperor Charles V. having married the ſiſter of Lewis, 
Uthe title of Hungary, in which he ſucceeded, with ſome 
and that kingdom has ever ſince belonged to the houſe of 
though by its conſtitution, its crown ought to be elective. 
dot the Hungarian kiſtory, fee Germany. 


R — — —  —— — — iliac 
TRANSYLVANIA. 

Subject to the houſe of Auftria:) 

fo BETWEEN the latitudes of 45 and"48 degrees 


North, about 180 miles; and between the 
b of 22 and 25 degrees Eaſt, about 120 miles. x" 


Wir.) Bounded on the North the Car 1 
ch divide it from Poland. * * . 

* douth and Eaſt by the irongate mountains, which divide 
lachia and Moldavia; And 


elt by Hungary. * 
D d Chiet 


YT. nen by * 9 N oath. 8 1 tat) Ma 


L +005. Y 1 
"a AN ky 2 \ p N 4 V7 1 DM * 
* ” * RIDES tha, y. "* * T4 v _ * * Ld * 4 * 
* * „ 
2 þ 


ww  _ nKkKANSYLVAN 11 


-$ Chief towuns... Chief tow 
Hermanſtadt, E. lon. 24. N. lat. | Clauſenbury, W. 
46-32. The capitalll. wWell-buiſt city, 
Saltzen h, ia the middle. Weiſſenburg, inthe 
Cronſtat, E. on the frontiers of ate on 5 Merik 
Turkey. SHEA 2 | 
Beſtricia, near the gold mines, | Deva, S. a' noted pl 

e 


* „ 


Mountains and Foreſti.] This is a very mount anon 
which the Carpathian mountains in the North, and 
mountains on the Eaſt, are exceeding. high, and coverd 
great part of the year ; the inland country is alſo mount 
covered with woods, as the frontiers towards Turkey al 
whence the Latin name of Tranſylvania was given toi 


Rivers.} The chief rivers are, 1. The Alauta, which 
of the boundary againſt Turkey on the Eaſt, and nu 
North to South, falls into the Danube. 2. be Med 
runs frem North to South, through the middle of the 0 
then, turning Welt, falls into tha Theſſe, oppoſite to-bey 


Air.] The air is warm here, but not ſo unhealthy 
Hungary. | "ge 
| * | £324 et 45 1 
Sail and Produce.) The ſoil is fruitful, aboundingin « 
cattle, and rich paſtures ; and the mines and ſands 
afford gold, ſilver, iron, and ſalt. ET 


Manufatures and Traffic. } Their principal manufacture 
and iron utenfils z their foreign trade is inconſiderable, u 
the ſoil is rich, it does not yield fo: much proſit to the $ 
might be expected, it being a frontier province, and freq 
vaged and plundered by friends and foes ;- which is then 
that it is not populous. A hg IIA 

Language.] Their language is the Sclayonian, of wh 
take —— in the next — which ſtill bears the nam 
vonia. | 


Religion.) The eſtabliſhed: religion here, as well as m1 
is Popery ; but there are a great number of Proteſtants, 
perſecuted as the Hungarians were, aud uſually joined the 
tents of that kingdom, and the | urks who protected bot 
Tranſylvanians are now ſome of the moſt faithful ſubjeds 
of Hungary has. 


Biſhepric.] The biſhoprie of Hermanſtadt is the only Ut 
know of; and there are no univerſities mentioned in thei 


Coins.) The German coins are current here: we do not 
have any peculiar to this province, | 


FRANSYLVANTA 4 


| 504 
0TIONS iv» MEMORABLE EVENTS. 


pana, part of the ancient Dacia, is ſaid to have been 

ed by Ly{imachus, one of Alexander's generals. - Julius 
| the Dacians, when they pers the Danube, and in- 
Roman empire. Auguſtus fortified the Southern or of - 
iz to prevent their incurſions. The Emperor Trajan ſub- 
ad reduced Dacia to the form of a province. It was 
by the Goths, on the decline of the Roman empire, and 
vere expelled by the Huns. Stephen I. king of Hungary, 
Tranſylvania, and introduced the Chriſtian religion there, 
\ From that time Tranſylvania was a province of Hun- 
| governed by an Hungarian viceroy, called a Vavoid; 
Vavoids at length ſet up for themſelves, and aſſumed an 
acy, In the year 1526, two rival princes contending for 
ality, one of them was ſupported by the German empe- 
the other by the Turk; whereupon this country became 
war for many Years. | | | | 
nces of the houſe of Ragotſki were at the head of the Pro- 
don, and ſupported by the Turks; but, being at length 
quit Tranſylvania by the Auſtrians, Ragotſki Fed for re · 
Turky : and, at the treaty of Carlowitz, anno 1699, this 

confirmed to the houſe' of Auſtria by the Turks, 

preſent inhabited by three different people, that have little 
to each other, viz- 1. Saxons; 2. Huns ; and z. Cin 

bas have near two thirds of the country: the poſterity of 
ne ſituate on the North-Eaſt; and the Cingars, who are 
ire in tents, and incamped all over the country; and theſe 
nage the hardware manufacture. | g 


c L A. VON I A. 
(Subject to the houſe of Auſtria.) 


and þ ETWEEN the latitudes of 45 and 47 degrees 
m. North, about 60 miles; and between the 
0 16 and 22 degrees Eaſt, about 200 miles. 


datt by the Danube; 
vuth by the Save; and, 
Felt by Stiria in Auſtria. 


Dd 2 | Chisf 


is.) Bounded on the North by the river Drave ; 


| 
| 


"mn 8 L A V O * 


Dagrab, W. on the Save. [Ratzen, E. 


not incumbered by woods or mountains, well watered by 


je/t tzarſtwije i fila wo i lawa wiekj, Amen. 


n 


= * 


Chief toons. Chef towns 
Capital Paſega, lat. 45-35, N. Peter waradiu, &. E 
long. 18-42, KE. * * | Salankamen, E,' 
Walpo, N. Kk. Cabot, E, 
Eſſeck, N. E. at the confluence Walcowar, E. 
of the Drave and Danube. 1 Gradiſka,. 8. on ths! 


* Ratzia'is the South - Eaſt diviGon; of this province, b4 
from the chief town Ratzen; the people are called] 
Raſcians; their.militia being part of the irregular troop 
done their Sovereign, the queen of Hungary, ſack f 
late wars, | | 78 


Soil, Produce, and Manu fucburgf,] Sclavonia is a 


navigable rivers, the Danube, Drave, and Save, and « 
ſtreams, which render the ſoil-exceeding fruitful, prod 
and wine in abundanee; where it is cultivated, bat being 
between the Turks and Chriſtians, and frequently eaten ij 
and enemies, the huſbandman has little ercouragement! 
his grounds, or the mechanic in his manufactures- 


Perſons of the Natives. ] The natiyes are of a good Nath 
hardy race, ſoldiers from their youth, their country 1 
long the ſeat of war. | KY LO 


Language.] The Sclavonian is one of the four original 
of Furope, and ſtill ſpoken by the Poles, Ruſſians, Hung 
Turks. Some have reckoned up -ixty nations that Tok: 

uage. Their Pater-noſter is as follows, viz. Otche nat 
Febgfiec da fwialit/a imia tauoie; da perijdet tzaſſaije du 
det volja two a jaco nanebeſi i na zemii ; chlieb nas naſuſebnj 
dnies ; joſfavi nam dolgi naſa jaco inij eftavlianjem din 
ine wwwedi nas woiſkuſchenie ; no iſbawi nas 4 laſæamage 


* - 


Religion.] The religion eſtabliſhed here is Popery, but! 
mixture of Greek Chriſtians among them, as well as Jews 


Biſhoprics and - Univerſities. ] The only biſhoprics are the 
Poſega and Zagrab; and, as to the univerſities, they ha 
neither arts or traffic can flouriſh in a country phat 1s fe 


the ſeat of war. 


Coinc. As to coins there is no mint in this country z butt 
man and Iurkiſh coins are current here. | 

Name and Revelutions.] The ancient Sclavenia contun 
large countries; ſome have extended it from the Adriats 
Euxine ſea. It is ſaid to have taken its name from the 
Scythian nation, which ſubdued Greece, as well as this c 


e 1 O A r 213 


ror Iuſtinian. The Venetians made a © 
er opel the natives to ſubmit to the vileſt drud · 
eh, that ſore derive the word Slave {rom this peo- 
appreſed and abuſed by their conquerors. © The Hungari- 
dans poſſeſſed this country alternately. The king of 
nn ſovereign of Sclavonia, when the Grand Bignior, So- 
e Magnificent, inyaded and reduced it, anno 1840 and 
b rmained poſſeſſed of it till the year 1687 ; ſoon after 
ley loſt this, and all the territories the Auſtrians poſleſs 
the Save and the Danube. : 


: 


| * 
© \ 
- oy 


en 0 


(Subject to the houſe of Auſtria.) 6 


hon and BFrreen the latitudes of 45 and 461 degrees 
tent. ; North, about yo miles ; and between the 
les of 15 and 17 degrees Eaſt, about 80 miles. 


irie] Bounded on the North by the river Save, which di] 
from Sclavonia; | 

he Eaſt by Boſnia; 

he South by Morlachia; and, 

te Welt by the duchy of Carniola, 


Chief towns. | Chief towns, 
|, E. lon. 16. N. lat. 46-5. Caſtanovits, ſituate on the Unna, 


1 on the Snye, Eaſt of] Eafl, 
þ t. o 


boil, Religion, and Revolutions. ] This country, as to the air, 
d produce, ſo much reſembles Sclavonia, that there is no 
af repeating theſe articles; their religion alſo is the-ſame, 
J dave undergone the ſame revolutions as Sclavonia has done. 


r.] The Croats, or Krabats, are of a good ſtature, and e- 
| brave, hardy ſoldiers, on which account ſeveral German 
atertain them for their guards. 

1 | | 
ents, Biſhoprics, Univerſities, and Coins.) As to — 
ele frontier provinces aus all been nod Rate Fom the 
by the houſe of Auſtria, they are all ſubje& to that houſe, 
KT a deſpotic, abſolute dominion, having no laws but ſuch 
woquerors pleaſe to impoſe. - I meet with no biſhoprics or 
| | ; univerſities 


wa” + 


bad — n 
=" 1 ** © - a : N » . - : % a Sp 
J — - L \ 


$i 24FS4 t | . | 4 FR . | 
4 

5 m0 x 1 x oh 
"bt — . 


1 tuns 6 E. 1 
8 about 00 miles, a —. 


” miles, on a mean. 1. 2 4 1 | 2 1 
8 enen Bounded on the North by cer Wl 
bo On the Eaſt by Boſnia; __ „ 
8 On the South by Dalmatia ; ind, e 
3 On the Weſt by the Gulph of Venice' formeriy 
Ae 1 


| nd | Chief town, 20 
Zegna, or , aver an 0 e rei in they 
mice, E. lon. 16. N. lat. 43718. * ſee * A dice 


* 4. 
—_— 


. 
44 


14 


$ * * 


* 


1 Tur KINGDOM. or nuss pou 
= DUCAL PRUSSIAN 


1 e -P Y 6. » A { 
| | Situation, Bound ie, Þ Ts. 8 country is bound | 
| | and Extent: by part of Samo 
{ by Poland Proper and Maſovia ; 4 the Ealt, by part of IM 


| | and to the Weſt, by Poliſh Pruſſia and the | 
=_ length is about 160 miles, and breadth. about 1% 
| | Mane, Air, foil, Product, and Rivers.) "The mans oY 


1 evidently derived from the Boruſha, the ancient 0 
the country. The air, upon the whole, is, bol * 
1 fruitful in corn and other commodities, aud alen_ 
| coal and fuel. Its animal productions are hoffe ſheeſy ' 
1 | game; bears, wolves, wild boars, and foxes. Its "ive 
are well ſtored with fiſhes; and amber, which is n_ 
formed of an oil coagulated with vitriol, is found on WY 


x 
[ F wards the Baltic. The woods furniſh the inha_ 


1 1VoNIA 
a 


— — 


1 


- 


* WV 


n A 5% C84 
ORE 


- [ 


„ s s 1 mug 


cds quantities of pot-aſbes. . The rivers. her 
9 Dr abr 
e the Memel or Mammel, the Paiſarge, and the 


& Inhabitants, Manners, ? As Pruflia, fince the be- 
alen, and Diverſons., F ginning of the preſent cen». 
me a moſt reſpectable power upon the continent of 
hall, for the information of my readers, deviate from m 
har | may bring before their eyes the whole of his - 
territories, which lye ſcattered in other diviſions of 
by, Poland, Swiſſerland. and the Northern kingdoms, with 
+ all which you will find in the following table. 


IF 


4.5 £07 2. 


* 
* 
— 2 hs 


EFT = err. 
* Pruſſia. 94950] 160 x12Konrnce. Areas. B.1 7 
Brandenburg 10, 910 414 1 r0fBerlin. | \ | 


4 W nnn r N 
* - 


— 
- 
_ +». 
9 2 We. — Ol 


Teeklenburg | 
hads, Gelder 360] 34]  23]Gelders 
bd Netchatel, f 32 20 Neufehatel 

; Tetal,—34,887 
peat part of Sileſia, which the pretent King of Pruſſia hath, under vari . 
den wreſted from the empreſs-queen; and, availing himſelf alſa of the 
ahl in Poland, he bas, by virtue of no other right than that which 
= army confers on every tyrant, ſeized upon Dantzick and Thorn, with 
me on the Viſtula, the Neiſter, and other territories contiguous to his 


. 
tt. Af „ Z— — 2 — 
. 


— of th 


* — — „* Sts 


— 
— nt W eo. A. 
- 


here confine myſelf to Pruſſia as a kingdom, becanſe his 
| n Be dominions. fall under the deſcription of the 
me they ye. | | 

MWhitacts of this Kingdom were, by Dr Buſching, eompu- 
N to 635,998 perſons capable of bearing arms; and ano- 
a author of equal credit makes the number about 450, oo0. 
WA 1719, it is computed that about 34,000 coloniſts have 


Witterward ſrom France, Switzerland, and Germany ; of 
4 = | which 


0 


4 } CAT The i LIES de. is. Sane. dd: YI is XxX SAS "24 - £4 R. Cs "TR 
G - 'P Tt 2 X Ne Py 4 * os * 


8 built 400 Tmall villages, 11 towns, $6 ſeats; and 30 ney 4 
Aud have founded-iooo village ſchools, chiefly in that 5g. 
| county named Little Lithuania. ; 
be manners of the inhabitants differ but little from + 
other inhabitants of Germany. The ſame miay be ge 
_ .*  2oms and diverſions, - „ 


P 
. 


TE 


_ © * Religion, Schools, and Academies.) The religion of Pruſſa 
| his preſent majeſty's wiſdom, very tolerant. The ai 
- _ _ ©,” grons are thoſe of the Lutherans and Calvinifis bot chiefly 
* merz but „ almoſt” all other ſeas 
_ . tolerated. "The country, as well as the towns, abounds 
An univerſity was founded at Koningſberg in 1544, byt 
ol no very remarkable learned men that it has produced, 
ey + "Antiquities and Curiofttiery 2 a | 
2 Wuatura/ 2 | : | Bee Germany, 
_ Cities. ] The kingdom of Pruſſia is divided into the 
uanian departments, the former of which contains 286 
25 - and the latter 105. * | at 18 
EKoningſberg, the capital of thé whole kingdom, fate 
wer Pregel, over which it has ſeven bridges, atid is about 
m Dantzic. According to Dr 'Buſching, this city is fer 
ja circumference, and contains 3, 800 hauſes, and about 6 
- | habitants. This computation, ? doubt, is a little exagoer; 
Wile, becauſe it ſuppoſes, at an average, near ſixteen perſon 
ty houſe. Koningſberg has ever made a conſiderable figure 
merce and ſhipping ; its river being navigable for lips; 4 
493 foreign ones arrived here in the year 1752, belides 2986 
and $73 floats of timber were, in the compaſs of that year, 
down the Pregel. This city, beſides its college oruniverit 
contains 38 profeſſors, boaſts of magnificent palaces, a ton 
and exchange; not to mention gardens and other emden 
It has a good harbour and citadel, Which is called Frec 
and is a regular ſquare, * 6 Oe . 
Cummerce and Manufactures.] The preſent Eng of Froi 
aſſiſtance of an excellent police, has brought the commerce 
nufactures of this country to a very flouriſhing fate, Wiel 
improving. The manufactures of Pruſſia ednſiſt of glals, ne 
paper, gun-powder, copper, and braſs mills z manutacures4 
camblet, linen, filk, gold and ſilver lace, ſtockings, and other 
| The inhabitants export variety of naval Yores, amber, lit. 
3 hemp- ſeed, oat- meal, fiſh, mead, tallow, and caviar; and 
that 5co'ſhips are loaded every year with thole Commoda 


from Koningſberg. 


| Conſtitution and Government.) His Pruſfan majeſty b 
through all his dominions, but is too wile to opprels als 
though he avails himſelf to the full of his power. The $9! 


— 


| % by of four chancellers of ſtate, viz, 
Atom is by a regency | , 

2. The great b ve ; 3. The great chan - 
nn * at — ers are alſo ſome other 


Ia deputies from the nobility; and, 3. from the commons. 


Gy um, its inland navigation, and his own excellent regula+ - 
= nes an amazing re venue from this country, which, about 

1 f 1nd an half ago, was the ſeat of boors and barbariſm. It 

9 In Amber alone brings him in 26,000 dollars annually; 
ercnues ariſe from his demeſnes, his duties of cuſtoms 


ind the ſubſidies yearly granted by the ſeveral ſtates 3 but 
able, from the immenſe charges of the late war. 


Strength.] The regulations of this department, introdu« 
ks wajelty, have a wonderful quick operation in. forming 


Ind aſſigned it, where the young men proper for bearing 
bd being incorporated with veterans, they ſoon. become well- 


that force was augmented to 300,000 men 


Beagle diſplayed ſable, crowned, or, for Pruſſia, Azure, 
ul ſcepter, or, for Courland. Argent, an eagle diſplayed; 
kh ſemi- circular wreaths, for the marquiſate of Branden- 
Jo theſe are added the reſpective arms of the ſeyeral provin- 
No the Pruſſian crown, | Yeti, 
we two orders of Kuighthood ; the firſt, that of the black 
Wituted by Frederic I. on the day of his coronation at Kon- 


knited to thirty, 8 F "XY 
adi is the order of merit, inſtituted by his preſent maje(- 
to is Pour le merite. a : 


lt neighbouring princes, who, on pretence of converting 
anity, wanted to ſubject them to flavery. They made 
nd againſt the kings of Poland, one of whom, Boleflans IV. 
& defeated and killed in 4163. They continued indepen- 
F705 till the time of the Cruſades, when the German 
ihe Teutonic order, about the year 1230, undertook their 
Ain the edge of the ſword, but upon condition of having. 

22 25 


= _— "is | 2 . N | | f | 
Mm ESE ES 1 
ub 'The-ſtates conſiſt; 1. Of — 
and 87 bailiwic ks. he ſtates conſiſt, 1. Of councellors | 
we inftitptions, bis majeſty has ereed- board for com - 


I His Pruſſian majeſty, by means of the happy-fituation - 


am is not known, though we. may conclude that it is very 


and recruiting his armies, . Every regiment has a parti- 
regiſtered ; and when occaſion offers, they join their regi - 

d troops, The Pruſiian army in time off peace, conſiſts of- 
the beſt diſciplined troops in the world, and during the 


er, of Knightboad.], The royal arms of Pruſia are 


uh this motto, Sum quigue. The ſovereign is always 
Ker, and the number of knights, excluſive ot the royal ſa- 


j The ancient hiſtory of Prudlia, like that of other king - 
Bl in the clouds of fiction and romance. The inhabitants 
uur been a brave and warlike people, and refuſed to ſub» , 


: 
= 


3 


moſt extirpated by the religious knights, Who, in the th; 
country with Germans. After this vaſt Walle of 


ad and Caſimir, king of Poland, by which I was agived 
no called Poliſh Pruſſia honid-contking a free provi * 


voured, but unſueeeſsfully, to throw off their wall 


| Held as a fief of Poland, and to deſcend to his male hee 
failure of his male iſſue, to his brothers and their male hers 


| fubliſted near 300 years. In 1659, the eleftor Frederis Wi 


this part of Pruſſia. 


of Chriſtendom, His grandſoti, the preſent king of Pru 


- tents for government, but expatiates on thoſe of h own fal 


nimity which qught to adorn à king. At bis death, which 


married in 1733 to Eliſabeth-Chriſtiana, of Briinſwic Wolfenbuttle, de 
dy whom he has no iſſue. The iſſue of the late William -Auguſtus, f 


. ard, the property country when conquered 
ies of wars followed, in which the inhabitants of Pruſſa 


rury, after committing the moſt incredible barbarities, oe; 


a peace was coneluded between the knights of the — 


king's protection ; and that the knights and the 2h po 
{s the other part; but were to acknowledge themſelies 


oland, This gave riſe to freſh wars, in which the knight 


to 


In 1525, Albert, margrave of Brandenburgh, and | 
maſter of the Teutonic order, concluded 4 peace at C 
which the margrave was acknowledged duke of the ta 
Pruſſia, (formerly called, for that reaſon, Ducal Profliz) 


ended the ſovereignty of the Teutonit order in ee aft 


Brandenburgh, deſervedly called the Great, had een Fra 
firmed to him; and by the conventions of Welne and Bron 
was freed, by Caſtmir, king of Poland, from vailalape ; and 
his deſcendents were declared independent and fovereign 


As the Proteſtant religion had been introdueed in this et 
the margrave Albert, and the electors of Brandenburgh 
of that perſuaſion, the Proteſtant intereſt favoured them 4 
that Frederic, the ſon of Frederic- William the Great, was 
the dignity of king of Pruffia, in à ſolemn allembly of the 
the empire, and ſoon after acknowledged as ſuch by all t 


memoirs of his family, gives us no high idea of this fri 


deric- William, who ſucceeded in 17134 He certainly was 


of ſtrong natural parts, and performed prodigious fern 
country, but too often at the expence of Humanity, and tae 


ed in 1740, he is faid to have left ſeven millions ſterling in 
fury, which has enabled his ſon, by his wonderfulmgon 
more wonderſul reſources, by. which he has repaired'tus 6 
become the admiration of the preſent age. 


„ Prederic III. king of Pruſſia and elector of Brandenburg, was be 


the king, are, Frederic-William, prince royal of Pruſſia, born in 2746. 
in 1765 to the princeſs, Eliſabeth · Ulrica, of Brunſwic, 3. Fredenc-00 
mins, born in 1757, and married in 1767 to the prince oF Orange 


: 


20LAND; weren LITHUANIA 425 
i J «th 4 . * 


— 


f 


DLAND, INCLUDING LITHUANIA. | 


$1TvaT10n and Exrenre 


Lingth 7092 between 2 16 and 34 Ealt longitude, _ 
” Breadth aol kerne ? 46 and 57 North Laicade, N 
REFORE the commencement of the preſent war, 
] the kingdom of Poland, with the great duchy 
kaznia annexed, was bounded on the North by Livenia, Mui- 
1nd the Baltic ſea ; on the Eaſt by Muſcovy ; on the South 
ary, Turky, and Little Tartaryz on the Weſt by Ger- 
zd had the form of its government been as perfect as its 
a was compact, it might have been one of the molt powerful 
bas in the univerſe, Its grand diviſions were, 


. 


Poland. 
| 


| 
| 


{ Lithuania, 
Podolia, 

J Volhinia, 
Red Ruſſia, 
Great Polznd, | 
Little Poland. 18 
Foleſia, 


- 


E. lon. 21-5, 
N. lat. 52-15. 


Courland, ſubj 
to Ruſſia, #1 


Teta 2 a | 
b Thom, nd Elbing, in Pruſſia Royal, are free cities, under the pro- 
an of Poland, but have been ſeized lately by the king of Pruſſia. 1 


| It is generally thought that Poland takes its name from 
if Pole. a Sclavonian word ſignifying a country fit for hunt- 
f which none was formerly more proper, on account of its 
"ods, wild beaſts, and game of every kind. , 


.] The air of Poland is ſuch as may be expected from fo 
but level a climate. In the North parts it is cold but 
Ide Carpathian mountains, which ſeparate Poland from | 
ate covered with everlaſting ſnow, which has been known 
We midſt of ſummer · Upon the whole, however, the cli- 
| Ee 3 mate 


„„ 


5 eee POL AND, 1wervbme LATHUAN IA, 

mate of Poland is temperate, and far from being ſo unſet 

ke mine or Summer, as might be ſuppoſed from  Nont 
10n. | * 


Seil, Produce, and Waters.) Poland is in general ale 
and the ſoil is fertile in corn, as appears rem che val 
- that are ſent from thence down the Viſtula, to Dantzic 
bought up by the Dutch, and other nations The paſtun 
| land, eſpecially in Podolia, are rich beyond expreſſion; 
id one can hardly fee the cattle that graze in the genden 
are mines ef ſilver, copper, iron, falt and coals; the int 
of Poland contain foreſts, which furniſh timber in 
that it is employed in houſe · building, inſtead'of bricks, 
tiles Various kinds of fruits add herbs, and fome grapes 
duced in Poland, and are excellent when" they meet with 
but their wine ſeldom or never comes to perfection, Poland 
various kinds of clays fit for pipes aud earthen Warn The 
many ſprings is boiled into falt. The virtues f a e 
palatinate of Cracow, which increaſes and decreaſes with 
are ſaid to be wonderful for the preſer vation of ie and 
ed, that the neighbouring inhabitants commonly Mee eg un 
ſome of them to 150 years of age This Tpring as ien 
by applying a torch to it, it flames like the ſubcleſt ſpirit 
The flame however dances on the ſurface, without heating 
ter, and if neglected to be extinguiſhed, which it may ea 
communicates itſelf by ſubterraneous conduits, to the roc 
in a neighbouring wood, which it conſumes ; and about 
ago, the flames are ſaid to have laſted for three years, be 
could be entirely extinguiſhed, | ©? 
Peculiar to this country is a kind of manns (if it can b 
vegetable) which in May and June the inhabitants sep 
with the dew, and it ſerves for food dreſſed various ways. we a 
The foreſts of Warſevia or Maſovia; contain plenty of ue 
faloes, whoſe fleſh the Poles powder, and elteem it an exce 
Horſes, wolves, boars, elks, and deer, all of them wild, 
mon in the Poliſh foreſts; and there is a ſpecies of wild! 
aſſes, ' that the nobility of the Wkrain, as well "as natives 
of. A kind of wolf, reſembling a hart, with ſpots on du Wat 
legs, is found here, and affords, the. beſt furs in the could, «: 
the elk, which is common in Poland, as well as in ſome other 
countries, is a very extraordinary animal. The fleſh ot ip: 
elk forms the moſt delicious part of their greateſt tealls. 
| is of the deer make, but much thicker and Jonger; the 
A the feet broad and cloven, the horns large, rough and bf 
is a wild goat's. Naturaliſts have obſerved, that upon" ai 
| elk, there was found in its head ſome large flies, with us 
| moſt eaten away: and it is an obſervation, ſufficiently ante 
| in the large woods and wilderneſſes of the North, this po 
| is attacked, towards the Winter chiefly, by a larger dont of 
thro” its ears, attempt to take up their Winter quarters u 
This perſecution is thought to affect the elk with the fall 


LAND; morons LITHUANIA. 25 
is means it is taken, Which, would. otherwiſe prove no caſy 
9 a En oy $9J Dre a 


I ' 4 9 g e E 
„ The rivets are, 1. The Dwina, which riſes in Lithuania. 
* g Welt, divides Poland from Livoniꝶ falling into the 


a4 or Viſtula, which, riſing in the South, of Silefia, 
into Poland, paſſes by. Cracow, then turns North, and, 
Sed Warlaw, falls into the Baltic, at Dantzick, by ſeve- 
lurb, receiving the bog above Plocſ ko. It ent 
The Worta, which runs from Katt to Weſt, and falls into the 
Kuſtrin, „ ; Weds vir of wager 
mn. Willa, which, riſing in the Eaſt of Lithuania, runs Weſt 
a and, having received the Berezini, or Ruſs, falls into 
1 near Memel. « | * e is. 1d 25 . 
the Nieper, or Boriſthenes, which, riſing in the province of 
tuns Welt into Poland, then turning South, enters Mai- 
ain at Kiof, then continuing its courſe South -Eaſt, falls into 
tine Sea at Oczakow, having received the Preypiccz in its 


, which riſes in Volhinia, runs South -Eaſſ through 
aud falls into the Nieper above Oczako r. 
ke Nieſter, which riſes in Red Ruſſia, and, running South- 
Inides Poland from Turky, and, having paſſed by Bender, 

othe Euxine fea, at Belgorod. ar eee a ; 


auer] Their chief manufaQures are linen, woolen, 


0! pe 39057 tut! 04 „ 


Fo LL WI 


$4. is 6. 
\* 1 7 


9 e 


] they never apply themſelves to traffic; this is leſt to the 
Dantzic, and other port-towus on the Baltic, or Viſtula. 
we a different ſort of people that live by tratſic, neither ſub- 
the commonwealth, or Poliſh gentry. Dantzic is a republic, 
d by its own magiſtrates ; and the common people live in a 
feedom in this and other trading towns, if compared to the 
the Poliſh gentry, 44 


tion.) Poland does not only reſemble a republic, but is 
bd and ſtiled ſuch by the Poles themſelves, in their acts of 
ke the legiſlative power is lodged in the ſtates, and the exe- 
ver in the ſenate, conſiſting of the king, primate, ſixteen, 
ud one hundred and thirty laymen ; of this ſenate the king 
= when he is preſent, but they can meet and conſult - 
m. 
ing is elected by the elergy and gentry in the plains of War- 
Lit the minority ſnould be ſo hardy as to inſiſt on their diſ- 
wajority will fall upon them and cut them in pieces; they 
= uuauimous therefore, and pretend to adhere to the ſlrong - 
Matever their inclinations may be. # $4 $4 
ey king is obliged to ſign an inſtrument called the Pacta 
v vhereby he engages that he will introduce no foreign 
prefer any foreigners, or other perſons, but natives of the 
province 


* ö 4 * * 


„ POLAND, eU LI TNA 
province where they are to execute their reſpedize 
though the king appoints the officers of ſtate, they areq 
able to the republic, and paid by them. The king cang G 
an officer; and, if the king breaks the Pata Conventa ' 
are juſtified if they reſiſt him, make war upon him, and , 
him. He cannot touch the public treaſure. - All the ſogy | 
dy the republic, as well as the officers of the Hate; and 
a clear revenue of 140,000 l. per annum, Which Has ben f 
ficient to maintain his houſehold 'with-great'ſplendor;4 


. preſent king had a greater ſum ſettled upon him by the ni 
bo tate: e cannot make war or peace without the wal T 
Rates. | The king cannot marry without the conſent of the k 

and the queen (as well as the king) muſt profeſs herſelf 

the cannot be crowned, of which the laſt queen” was ant bi 


by ſhe choſe to want the title of queen rather thin alter bs po 
"which was that of a Lutheran Proteſtant. Her court 1 


q | as republic, and a proviſion made for her 6 

” —— 1s wn | * 
The diet, or aſſembly of the ſtates, conſiſts of the feng ci 
deputies, or repreſentatives of every palatinate {county be 


und meet uſually every two years; and oftner upog e 0 
. occaſions, if ſummoned by the king, or, in his abſence; 

3 biſhop of Gneſna. e 5 
* Whena general diet is to be held, the ſeveral diſtrids p 
ed of the buſineſs to be tranſacted there, by letters feat ki 

king: upon this notice the gentry afſemble in each pa 
:dietine, and there diſcuſs the buſineſs ; and chooſe nunc 1 
puties, to attend the general diet, to act there, conform 
ſenſe of the dietine. 


The general diet fits but ſix weeks, and often bf 
u tumult much ſooner ; for one diſſenting voice prevents u dale 
-any laws, or coming to any reſolution on what is propoſes | 
from the throne. | ES ol 


be ſenate confiſts of the archbiſhops, biſhops, 
3» lans, and great officers of ſtate, 1.0 
" Poland is in reality a confederacy of united ſtates: 
nate, or county, makes laws, which muſt not however he 
to the general laws of the republic, enacted by the diet, 
aſſembly of the ſtares, r a TO 
Poland Proper, and the grand duchy of Lichuania, atef 
- that each of them have their crown- general, chancellor, 
cellor, treaſurer, and ſub- marſhal ; theſe ten, vis. five for! 
dom, and five for the duchy, are of the council. | 
From this ſhort ſketch it appears, that Poland is gown 
kind of Rate that Great Britain and ſome other nation 
merly; and that the Poliſh conſtitution was originally # 
— the ſovereign from being too powerful for w_ 
inveſted kim with ample prerogativess but that the be l 
meaſures for the good of the whole ſhould be obſtruQed i 
negative is a great defect, and muſt ever be productive . 
for other ſtates, which may have particular intereſts r ; 
always find means to gain on: or more wa 


CY 


_— — — — 
— 
* 
- 
# 


20LAND, Wr LITHUANIA. 1289 
obe defires of ſuch ſtares ; beſides this, there are many 
-mveniencies ariſing in a ſtate where the lords have | 
| over their vaſſals, even to their lives. WF a HET 
. and ſome other trading towns, are diſtin republies go- 
their reſpective magiſtrates. Ducal Pruſſia is ſubje& to 
I Profla, and the duchy of Courland to its own duke. 

” . I b p 4 1 
unte, Manners, Cuſtoms, and Diver ons. ] From what has 
\ of the extent of Poland, it is impoſſible to form an eſtimate 
wmber of its inhabitants : they undoubtedly, before the 
bat of the preſent, war, were very numerous ; but they are 
on, even at preſent; that numbers of them, in remoter 
tine till to be heathens, or have very imperfect notions 
kauity, Some have ſuppoſed Poland and Lithuania to con- 
00,000 of inhabitants, and to be at leaſt as populous as 
When we conſider that the Poles have no colonies, and 
enjoy long tracts of peace, and that no fewer than 2,000,000 
ure faid to inhabit their villages, exclufive of thoſe who live 
cities and towns, perhaps this calculatien is not exaggera- 


a is ſair, and their ſhapes are welt proportioned. - They 
and ſubmiſſive to their huſbands. * 78 


not united; the kitchen is on one fide, the ſtable on ano - 
dwelling- houſe on the third, and the gate on the front. 
patent themſelves with a few ſmall beds, and if any lodge at 
daes, they muſt carry their beddiag with them. When they 
to dinner or ſupper, they have their trumpets and other 
ing, and a number of gentlemen to wait on them at table, 
ag with the moſt profound reſpect; for the nobles who are 


nch ; but their patron uſually treats them with civility, and 
the eldeſt to eat with him at his table, with hit cap off; and 
e of them bas his peaſant boy to wait on him, maintained 
maſter of the family. At an entertainment, the Poles lay 
tives, forks, nor ſpoons, but every gueſt brings them with 
Wd they no Tooner fit down to table, than all the doors are 
g not opened till the company return home. It is uſual for 
man to give his ſervant part of his meat, which he. cats as he 
behind bim, and to let him drink out of the ſame cup with 
dat this is the leſs extraordinary, if it be conſidered, that 
Mas are eſteemed his equal. Dumpers are much in faſhion, 
Rand in Ruſſia ; nor will they eaſily 'exenſe any perſon from 
dhe. It would exceed the bounds of this work to deſcribe 
ur and equipages of the Poliſh nobility, and the reader 
Fe to himſelf an idea of all that is faltidious, ceremonious, 
and ſhewy in life, to have any conception of their way of 
carry the pomp of their attendance, when they appear 


— 


he Poles, in their perſons, make a noble appearance; their 
honeſt, and hoſpitable ; and their women ſprightly, yet 
uſually travel on horſeback : a Poliſh gentleman wilt not 
tone's-throw without his horſe ; and they are fo hardy, that 


ſeep upon the ground, without any bed or covering, in 
(ſow, The Poles never live above Rairs, and their apart - 


quently find themſelves under the neceſſity of ſerving them 


abroad, 


tet IO IeIr mommy ws A oy _—_— — — 
K * 
- 


: 


| 4 afford. 1d ets cr Ne kb 1 
I "The Poles are divided inte nobles, citizens, and peaſant, 


from the public poſts they enjoy. Hence all who are of x 


what reſtraints they pleaſe by the pada cundenta and none! 


poſſeſſes above 4000 towns and villages- Some of them can 
which are upon duty day and night before their palages aus 


. ſenate are often determined by the ſword, When great! 


' * 


abs 5 POLAND, ixciovmne Lr HUANIKE 


abroad, even to ridicule, for it is not unuſual to fee the 
| Poliſh grandee, beſides a coach and fix, with a great 
ſervants, attended by an old gentleman-uſher, an dl gem 
for. her governante, and a dwarf of each ſex to hold dp! 
and if it be night, her coach is ſurrounded by a great 1 
flambeaux. The figure of all their pomp, however, i 
tioned to their eſtates, but each perſon goes as far as his in 


Poland has its princes, counts, and barons, yet the ba 
the nobility are naturally on a level, except the differente a 


call one another brothers. They do not value titles of ha 
think a gentleman of Poland is the higheſt appellation che 
joy. They enjoy many conGiderable privileges, and in 
— ed Poliſh liberty is properly limited to them alone, 
the indulgence of former kings, but more generally frog 
cuſtom and preſcription. They have-a power of life and & 
their tenants and vaſſals; pay no taxes are ſubje& to non 
king; may chuſe whom they will ſor their king, and day 


and the burghers of ſome particular towns, can purchaſe lu 
ſhort, they are almoſt entirely independent, enjoying ma 
privileges entirely incompatible with à well- regulated tas 
they engage in trade, they ſorfeit their nobility. Theſe g 
vileges make the Poliſh gentry powerful ; many of then) hy 
territories, with a deſpotic power, as we have faid, over 
ants, whom they call their ſubjects, and transfer or align 
the lands, cattle and furniture. Some of them have elle 
five to thirty leagues in extent, aud are alſo hereditary for 
cities, with which the king has no concern. One of the 


10, oo men. The houſe of a nobleman is a ſecum Af 
ſons who have committed any crime; for none muſt preſuns 
them from thence by force. They have their horſe an foal 


antichambers, and march before them when they go abr 
make an extraordinary figure when they come to dhe die, 
them having 5000 guards and attendants; and their debatd 


ſaits at law, the diet, or rather tribunals, decide them; 
cution, of the ſentence mult be left to the longeſt ſword; it 
tice of the kingdom is commonly too weak for the grandes 
times they, raiſe 5 or 6000 men of a ſide, plunder and du 
thers cities, and beſiege caſtles and . forts ; for they think 
them to ſubmit to the ſentence of judges, without a feld beg 
to the peaſants, they are born ſlaves, and have no nonen s 
If one lord kills the peaſant of another, he is not capitallyd 
but only obliged to make reparation, by another pealanl 
value. A nobleman who is deſirous of cultivating 4 Xs 
builds a little wooden houſe, in which he ſettſes à Pealan 
family, giving him a cow, two heres, a certain numer! 


ö 


— 0 


— 


or 40D, wctrpne LITHUANIA. ag 


the nd as much corn as is ſufficient to maintain him the firſt 
— n improve for his own future ſubſiſtence and the advan · 

gent | 
their maſter. They are indiſpenſably obliged to cultivate, 
; they are incapable of entering upon any condition of life 
+ nrocure them freedom, without the permiſſion of their 


coperty in their hands, too often abuſe it in the moſt groſs, 
bog manner, their wives and daughters being expoſed to 


| tuation of the Poliſh peaſants, which is their inſenſibility. 
8, and accuſtomed from their infancy to hardſhips and 
Jour, they ſcarce entertain an idea of better cireumſtances 
liderty. They regard their maſters as a ſaperior order 


y with their condition, they are ready upon every occaſion 
x themſelves and their families for their maſter, eſpecially 
takes care to feed them well. 'They think that a man 
be very wretched while he has any thing to eat. 1 haye 
more circumſtantial in deſcribing the manners and preſent 
Poles, as they bear a near reſemblance, in many parti- 
p thoſe of our own country and Europe in general, during 
kl ages. 1 rn 
| 20 the Poles is pretty ſingular. They cut the hair of 
& ſhort, and ſhave their beards, leaving, only large whiſ- 

wear a veſt which reaches down to the middle of the 
a kind of gown over it lined with fur, and girded with a 
the ſleeves fit as cloſe to their arms as a waiſtcoat, Their 
xe wide, and make but one piece with their ſtockings. 


vear neither ſtock nor neckcloth. Inſtead of ſhoes, they 
leather boots, with thin ſoles, and deep iron heels bent 
oon. They carry. a pole-ax, and a ſabre or cutlaſs, 
des, When they appear on horſeback, they wear over all 
kak, which is commonly covered with furs both within and 
The people of the beſt quality wear ſables, and others the 
gers, leopards, &c. Some of them have. fifty ſuits of 
W 35 rich as poſſible, and which deſcend from father to ſon. 
r rot for our own partiality to ſhort dreſſes, we muſt ac- 
chat of the Poles tobe pictureſque and majeſtic. Charles II. 
, thought of introducing the Poliſh dreſs into his court, 
lis reſtoration, wore it for two years, chiefly for the en- 
ent of Engliſh broad-cloth, but diſcontinued it through his 
. with the French. | 


Rople of faſhion, of both ſexes, affect the French or En- 
. As to the peaſants, in winter they wear a {heep-ſkin 
K awards, and in ſummer a thick coarſe cloth z but as 

e — 


up Pr no property, all their acquiſitions ſerve only 


# they are expoſed to the diſmal, and. frequently fatal ef- 
the caprice, cruelty, and barbarity of their tyrannical ma- 
b oppreſs them with impunity; and having the power of 


brutal treatment. One bleſſing, however, attends. the 


nd hardly ever repine at their ſevere lot. Chearful and 


ar a fur cap; their ſhirts are without collar or wriſtbands, 


Wit of the women comes . very near to that of the men; 


* * 


” y * 


10 POLAND, ncuupie LTTHUANGI 
to linen they wear none. Their boots are the Hinds 
ped about their legs, with the thicker part tu gui i 
feet. The women have a watchful eye over their dt 
make them wear little bells before and behind, to give 
they are, and what they are doing. 

* The inns of this country * ſtables built vid h 
covered with ſtraw, without furniture or windows; thaed 
ber at one end, but none can lodge there, b:zauſe offi 
vermin ; fo that ſtrangera generally chooſe rather to loder 
| Horſes. Travellers are obliged to carry proviſions wit 
when foreigners want a ſupply, they apply to the lord oft 
who forthwith provides them with necefſaries, - 

Though Copernicus, the great reſtorer of the trek 
 ſHſtem, Vorttivs, and ſome. other learned men; were nat 
land, yet its foil is far from being favourable to Tearing 

ſpoken, though incorrectly, by the common in þ 
ces. But the contempt which the nobility, who ples 

importance in the privileges of their rank, have ever hem 

ing, the ſervitude of the lower people, and the uni 

tion among all ranks of men, theſe circumſtances have i 

retarded, and notwithſtanding the liberal efforts of tis} 
jeſty, ſtill continue to retard the progreſs of letters in ths 


Cities, Towns, Fort, and other } | Warſaw lies on 
Eadiſcet, Public and Private. and almoſt in the ca 
land. It is the royal reſidence ; but though it contains g 
nificent palaces and other buildings, beſides churches ant 
it has little or no commerce The ſame may be fd d 
which is the capital (though that honour is dilputed by 
for we are told, that notwithſtanding it lies in the neigh 
the rich ſalt mines, and is ſaid to contain 50 churches and 
its commerce is inconſiderable. 2 | 
© Dantzic is the capital of Poliſh Pruſſia, and is famous 
on many accounts, particularly that of its being fora 
head of the Hanſeatic affociation, - commonly "called 
towns. It is ſituated on the Viſtula, near five miles n 
tic, and is a large, beautiful, populous tity z its how 
are five ſtories high; and many of its ſtreets are planted! 
nut-trees. It has a fine harbour, and is till a molten 
mercial city, although it ſeems to be ſomewhat paſt! 
glory, which was probably about the time that the 
Thou wrote his much eſteemed Hifloria ſui Tempe 
der the year 1607, he ſo highly celebrates its commer 
denr. It is a republic, with a ſmall adjacent tern 
miles round it, under the protection of the king 20d the 
Poland. Its magiſtracy, and the majority of its bal 
Lutherans ; although the Romaniſts and Calvinilts be | 
rated in it. It is rich, and has 26 pariſhes, with m 
and hoſpitals, and is ſuppoſed. to contain near 200,000 
Its own ſhipping is numerous, but the foreign ſhips e 
ſorting to it are more ſo, whereof 1014 arrived 


— 


wakes | | 

PWLAND, ancLovpne LITHUANIA, 227 
which year alſo 1288 Poliſh veſfels came down the Viſtala, 
In with corn, for its matchleſs granaries ; from whence 
— is diſtributed to many foreign nations; Poland bei 
ned the teſt magazine. of corn in all Europe, — 
the port for diſtributing it every where: befides 
dantric exports great quantities of naval ſtores, and vaſt va - 
er article. Y | 1 
1 of Dantzic have often changed their maſters, and 
mes been under the protection of the Engliſh and Dutch, 
te they have ſhewed a great predilection for the kingdom 
Mic of Poland, as deing leſs likely to rival them in their 
abridge them of their immunities, Which reach even to 
| coining money. Though ſtrongly fortified, and 
4 150 large braſs cannon, it could not, through its ſitua- 
d a regular ſiege, being ſurrounded with eminences. _ 
afon why Dantzic, Thorn, and Elbing, enjoy privileges, 
2nd religious, very different from thoſe of the reſt of Po. 
becauſe not being able to endure the tyranny of the Teu- 
ts, they put themſelves under the protection of Poland; 
ing to themſelves large and ample privilegs, of which they 
to be ſtripped by the king of Pruſſia, who, on account of 
tion on the Baltic, their opulence, their commerce, their 
and duties, has long beheld them with a wiſhful eye, and 
it extremely convenient to have them annexed to his do- 


* 


Title. ] King of Poland, Great Duke of Lithuania, Dube 
Pruſſia, ſſovia, Samogicia, Kiovia, Volhinia, Pado- 
a, Livonia, Smolenſko, Severia, and Czernikovia. 


] The arms of Poland are quarterly. In the firſt and fourth 
taple argent, crowned and armed, Or, for Poland; in the 
d third, gules, a cavalier armed cap-a-pee argent; in the 
2d a naked ſword of the ſame ; in the ſiniſter a ſhield azure, 
ith a bearded croſs, Or, mounted on a courſer of the ſe- 
ded of the third, and neiled of the fourth, for Lithuania. 
el, a crown, heightened with eight fleurets, and cloſe 
Emi. cireles, ending in a monde, Or, The motto, Ha- 


era Reges. 


Ide forces of Poland are all horſe, and it is ſaid they 
leo, ooo, and Lithuania 70, ooo; but then it is preſumed 
(their numerous vaſſals and ſervants, who are * to 
tr lords, when they are ſummoned, on pain of forteiting 
But the ordinary army conſiſts of 36,000 in Poland, 
din Lithuania, ; 

emen hold their lands by military tenures, and are o- 
dung a certain number of hcrſemen into the field, in pro- 
Ithe value or rents of their lands; but then they need not 
the field above fix weeks, and are not obliged to march 
tingdom. As they have no foot, they hire Germans 


Mecally when they "_— Mong place ; and, fince the 97 
2 ceſſion 


S * 


228 PoLAND. netupine LITHUANT 
their foot than they deſired, though 9 * 1 * 
public but paid by the king. oy; expence 


«© Antiquities and Curiofities.) Among the curioſities of th 
may be reckoned the wild men that are frequently found int 
- Whither, it is ſuppoſed, theit parents carried them is ths 

to avoid the Tartars, who often make incurſions into bd 
carry off whole villages of people into flavery. "Upon at 

ſuit, it is ſuppoſed that the women have been forced to) 
children behind them, for they are frequently found 
bears, by whom they are nouriſhed, and taught to feed! 
thoſe that have been taken go upon all-fours, thought 
times ſtand upright : they have not the" uſe of ſpeech & 
have been taught to ſpeak by being brought into town, 
Kindly : they retain no memory of their” former ſavage | 
they come to be humanized and made'converſable. 
The falt-pits in Poland are wonderful caverns, feverd 
yards deep, and at the bottom there-are a thouſand intrig 

ings or labyrinths : theſe are exceſſive cold, and ſach u 

_ ariſe ſometimes, as nothing can reſiſt. One of theſe mins e 
ed the republic the value of forty thouſand pounds aye 
them are three kinds of ſalt; one extreme hard; and's 
eryſtal ; another not ſo hard, but as clear: the third is fol 
tle, and of a pure white. They are forced to take x 
their lights, for the vapour, which is nitrous, will ſoar 
fire, and ſet them in a flame. 

The gentlemen of Poland have a right to all mines fon 
lands, whether metals or ſalt, except white falt, of wie 
has an eighth, and ſome ſmall demands which the quee 

officers of hate have upon the reſt. 
Under the mountains adjoining to Kiow, in the defart 
na, are ſeveral grottoes, where a great number of bumas 
preſerved, though buried a vali many years ſince, being 
hard nor ſo black as the Egyptian mummies. AmongUi 
princes, in the habits they uſed to wear. It is thought thy 
| ſerving quality is owing to the nature of the ſoil, which 
'Y ſandy. Poland can boaſt of few antiquities, as old old 
never perfectly known to the Romans themſelves, Its 
rities are but few, the chief being the gold, ſilver, and url 
veſſels, preſented by the kings and prelates of Poland, azd 
in the cathedral of Gueſna. | 


Langnage.] The proper language of Poland is the gem 
intermixed with the High Dutch and in Lithuania us 
| differs much from that of the other provinces. Latin® 
; underſtood, and ſpoke by the meaneſt people, though ns 
| realy. The Pater-noſter, in the Polith languages 1 
ing tenor, viz. Oycze nasf; ktorys na 'niebieſach ; wed) 
twwoie ; niech prayidaie kroleſtavo tavoie : nich bedxie ue 8 
tv niebietac y na ziemi ; cheleba noſſego powſſedniegs' day nan 
puſc nam naſi winy, jaco y my edpuſc- zamy najys 


— — e— ——L—B[——. — —— 
9 


4 


vol AMD, evo LITHUANIA. yg 
5 . ; ale nas wybaw ode zdlago ; abowiem tay ie jeff 


ere chwala na wicke. Amen, 


] The eſtabliſhed religion is Popery, of which no people 
nacious than the Poles, even to enthuſiaſm, except in 
0x05 near the Baltic 3 and there the Lutheran religion 
but frequently perſecuted by the republic ; of which the 
4 Thorn in the year 1724, are a late memorable inſtance. 
"blic tolerates every religion but Proteſtants, for there are 
e of Mahometan Tartars in Lithuania, great numbers of 
{ many of the Greek * gs who are ſeldom or never 
I on account of their ſeveral perſuaſions. | 
r Romiſh clergy are very numerous in Poland, and are poſ- 
hear two thirds of the rents of the nation: therefore it may 
andered at, that they ſhould have a powerful ſway in a na- 
uremely illiterate : they judge by what they obſerve from 
ation in other countries, that arts and ſciences do not con- 
bo the power of the clergy ; and thoſe of Poland being in ge? 
orant bigots, and chiefly watchful of their ſpiritual autho - 
ey therefore leave no art untried to raiſe a general deteſta- 
the Proteſtants, whom they call Diſſidents; and hence chief- 
the troubles which at this time diſtract that nation; and al- 
dilibe to their preſent king, who, although he is of their 
non, yet, being an encourager of arts and ſciences, that pro- 
x ſafficient to put the clergy upon their guard, and try to 
he good intentions of their Sovereign. X * 


ibuprics, and Biſhoprics.] There are but two archbiſhoprics, 
ka and Leopold. The archbiſkop of Gneſna is always a Car- 
id Primate of the kingdom, and, during an interregnum, and 
ng's abſence, he is Regent. 

biboprics are thoſe of Peſna, Wilna, Cracow, Culm, Kar- 
Window, Mednic, Plokſkow, Letſkow, Colmemſee, Foſ- 
Premiſlaw, and Caminiec. | 


COLIN Ss. l. & d. 

Gold Ducat of Poland, — —_—— 0 

ud Silver Dollar of Dantzic, —— Oo 4 6 

I ad Rix Dollar of Thorn, — 9 4 5 

Fu Ar Dollar of Sigiſmund III, and of Uladiſlaus IV. 6 
vs of Poland, 1 


Ide Vandals, or Veneti, were the ancient inhabitants 
5 tiled by the Romans, Sarmatia Europza. 'Theſe were 
kd by the Tartars and Ruſſes, who erected ſeveral ſmall ga- 

which were at length united in Leches, ſtiled their duke. 
te founder of Cracow, reigned about the year 700, and 
W31910ns to his children: after whoſe death, the Poles 
falus their duke, whoſe poſterity enjoyed it till the year 
a duke Boleſlaus Crobray, with the concurrence of the 
ihe German Emperor, aſſumed the title of king, and con- 
| quered 


— - 


the ſervice they had done in the holy wars, the Prufam 


1435, and marrying Uladiſlaus, 


legiſlative power being lodged in the king and ſenate bele 


230 POLAND, tic.vung LITHUANS 
| Moravia, and Pruſſia, making them 4 
Oland. | | ; g L661 | 
Boleſlaus II. added Red Ruſſia to Poland, by marrying 
ceſs. Vicellava, heireſs of that duchy, anno ogg. 
| In the reign of Uladiſlaus, who ſucceeded to the com 
the Pope aſſigned Pruſſia to the Knights of the Teton, 


Pagans, and the holy ſec claiming à right to dilpo of 
countries, Se | 
In the reign of Lewis, who was alſo king of Hy 
the Poles procured ſeveral limitations and-reſtrainu u 
prerogativzs, their kings being abſolute until then. 
The princeſs Hedwigis, = hter of Lewis, ſucreedel 
Great Duke of Lithuania, 
became united to Poland. | 1005 


Caſſimir IV. who aſcended the throne anno 1446, e 
a war with the Teutonic Knights, (Who endeavoured 
Pruſſia independent of the crown of Poland) a treaty wa 
concluded between theſe powers; whereby it was agreed, 
that part of Pruſſia, which lies Welt of the river Weigl, 
ſubject to the crown of Poland, and the Eaſtern fide fan 
ſubject to the Teutonic Knights, provided the Grand Ma 
an oath of fealty to the King of Poland as his vaſal, . 
complied with, _ | | 
In this reign, the repreſentatives from the ſeveral pala 
counties, were firſt called to the diet, or aſſembly of the & 


Towards the end. of this century, Jagellan, the Grand 
Livonia, being choſen king, embraced Chriſtianity, and 
his hereditary dominions to Poland; which generous af 
the Poles to continue the crown in his family, till the de 
laſt male heir, Sigiſmund Auguſtus, in 1552. 
About the year 1520, in the reign of Sigiſmund, 
trine, tending to a reformation, was introduced into Fl 
embraced by the city of Dantzic and other towns in the 
Poland. | 
The Ruſſians invading Livonia in this reign, the. Sout 
vinces put themſelves under the protection of Poland, ad 
of Livonia called in the Swedes to defend them agu te 
which was the occaſion of perpetual wars among thoſe pot 
: Henry of Valois, duke of Anjou, being elected Mage 
anno 1574, abdicated Poland, on his Tc the ( 
France; whereupon Stephen Batori, Prince of Trankj! 
elected king of Poland, and marrying the ſiſter of gin 
uſtus, eſtabliſhed himſelf on the throne, in oppalinon'n 
firian party. He eſtabliſhed courts to receive appeals in 
courts, there being no appeals allowed before, but 4% the 
council; and he alſo ſettled the Coſſacks, a rude people, il 
raine. He was ſucceeded, in 1586, by Sigilmund, 4 
king of Sweden; who, being afterwards crowned. king 0 
and aſpiring to that of Ruſſia alſo, he was engaged in 
he at laſt contented himſelf with the throne of Poland. 


YOLAND; iner unn LITHUANIA. 230 


who aſcended this throne anno 1622, invaded Ruſſia, 
| he capital city of Moſcow, obliging the Ruſſians to cede 
nee of dmolenſleo to Poland. | | 1 + ww 
reign of John Caſſimir, brother of Uladiſſaus, who was a 
aſcended the throne anno 1648, Charles Guſtavus, 
deden, in one year, viz, 1655, made an entire conqueſtof 
ind Cafſimir fled into. Sileſia z but the Swedes retiring next 
mir was reſtored; whereupon. he entertained German 
\ cure his poſſeſſion; but the Poles, apprehending he in- 
0 make himſelf abſolute, depoſed him; whereupon he reti- 
France, and became abbot of St Germain. 
| Wiſnowiſki was next elected, anno 1670; in whoſe reigg 
x conquered the province of Podolia, and beſieged Leopol, 
ag the Poles to pay them an annual tribute; wherenpon the 
war _ out, John - Sobieſki, the Crown General, 
z great victory over the Turks; but the Poles refuſing to 
feld any longer, he obtained no great fruits of his victory. 
ili dying anno 1674, the -Poles elected John Sobieſki their 
regard of his ſervices againſt the Turks. It was this Sobi · 
þ joined the duke of Lorrain, the imperial general, when 
u beſieged Vienna in 1683, and obtained that deciſive 
which compelled the infidels to abandon Hungary not long 


| death of Sobieſki, Frederic Auguſtus, Elector of Saxony, 
king of Poland, anno 1698, in oppoſition to the prince 
, who was proclaimed King by the French faQion, but ob- 
retire into France; and the following year, 1699, at a trea» 
n the Turks on one part, and the Germans and Poles on 
, at Carlowitz, the Furks reſtored Podolia, with the city 
let, to Poland. After which the - poles inſiſted, that the 
wid fend back his Saxon forces to Germany; which not be · 
Wy complied with, the diet came to a reſolution, that the 
bould mount on horſeback, and drive the Saxons out of the 
; the king, however, found means to retain theſe forces, 
tenting that they were , neceſſary to oppoſe the Swedes 
ka: and, in the year, 1700, he entered into à confede- 
th the Danes, Ryſhans, and Brandenburghers, againſt 
Ul. king of Sweden; in which war — was defeat · 
ral battles by the Swedes, who depoſed him, and advan- 
bans to the throne of Poland, anno 4704. The king of 
erwards purſued king Auguſtus into Saxony, took every 
ſubject to Anguſtus, except Dreſden, and raiſed vaſt con- 
After which he had the aſſurance to viſit king Auguſtus 
a, without a guard, and take his leave of him, 
iſaus remained on the throne of Poland until the year 
| King Charles XII. being defeated by the Ruſſians at 
ad obliged to take refuge in Turky, King Auguſtus re- 
the throne of Poland, though he had ſworn not to diſturb 
Sn the poſſeſſion of it. fle kept a conſiderable body of 
it him afterwards, in order to prevent another revolu- 
Alz alles the Ruſlians lived at diſcretion in Poland for ma- 
ny 


292 ol aben 0 Meese LITHUANS 
ny years, plundering and 9 che country ing f 


ner, under pretence of arrears to them for hen 
Sweden; which occaſioned à mi 
and the Czar ; which ran ſo high, that the; nw 
the Poles, that Angus nen to make the crownll 
bis family. 

Some time after, the populdce at "Thorn (which 1 

town in Regal Pruſſia) inſulting à Popiſh 

their magiſtrates and ſeveral citizens wer conderatigl 
miſſioners ſent from the court of Poland 
for not ſuppreſſing the tumult; in whoſe behalf 
tant powers of Europe interpoſed, threatemmę 
giltrates death, if they were executed; but, "the Viental 
ver treaties engaging the attention of the! powergnaln 
time, the unfortunate Proteſtant citizens af Thames 
Nothing more remarkable happened in this reins une 
Poles attacking the Saxon forces, and e them | 
kingdom. | 

— II. dying in the yeas 1733. hie fon" 1gull 
advanced to the throne of Poland, by the 
and Ruſſians, though the French faction ha 
niſlaus, who, retiring, to Dantzic, was beg n_ 
Saxons and Ruſſians, and, eſcaping from thence, mane 
whereupon his party ſubmitted, and ſwore allenan_—_ 

ſtus, who did not ſeem to be much in the 1 | 
or though the king of Pruſſia plundered Saxony, nn 
pital city of Dreſden, in 1746, the Poles H 
defence, diſobliged probably by his long abſen7ẽ§ q 

October 5, 1763, — 2 III. king of Poland ded 

his capital of Saxony ; and, 
| - September 6, 1764, Count Staniſlaus. Poris 
count of his perſonal merit, was unanimouſly cnn__ 
proclaimed king of Poland, by the name ors 
without ſo much as an attempt, or even 4 motjonn_ 
old king Staniſlaus, though then alive ; but who g 
Lorrain, on February 23, 1766. 

The king being ſupported by an army «of Rubag 
and having done ſome acts, thought by the cien_ 
ing the Proteſlants and Greeks, many canfeden_ 
were formed againſt him; which being eras 11 
ſlaughter by the Ruſſians, in whom the new 
ſo exaſperated many of the heads of the confedermnl 
licited the protection of the Turks; who being 61 
joled by the French, declared war again 
drawing off great part of their attention to Polandiifh 
derates an opportunity of recovering themſelvesy whend 
acted in a manner that has almoſt ruined the 
confuſion will end is not eaſy to aſcertain. | ; 
I ſhould have been remembered, that the 8% 
knowledged Ducal Pruſſia to be independent os 
1663, upon condition that it ſhould revert to men 
on failure of the male fue, = 0 . 


x 44 p 


„ ©: * | 
„ e by 
= * 


„Aren 
., 25 
1 23 
* A 0 bs * 
G * But G e *. 
; 5 | 
8 
31 


.U $8 1. 4 _ 233 


1 5 * — * o 4 8 « * — 


bovr, on THE RUSSIAN EM PIRE } 
Wi EUROPE and ASIA. 


Joes ExraxT or THE Russia urig in Evzore. 


: N ; 0 85 K. t lon. 
1500 23 and 65 Eat lon. 
E. 75 | ; 47 and 72 North lat. 


w and A CORDING to the moſt authentic accounts 
L of this mighty empire, it conſiſts of fifteen” 
ee Gays ſixteen) provinces, or governments; beſides part 
& Ellhonia, Ingria, Livonia, and part of Finland, which 
ered from Sweden; alſo the duchy of Courland in Po- 
which the Empreſs of Ruſſia has now the entire diſpoſal. 
dhe Ruſſian empire in its moſt extenſive ſenſe, we - 
eee all thoſe new acquiſitions in Tartary, now known 
mae of Siberia ; the whole comprehending the Northern. 
e and Aſla, ſtretching from the Baltic and Sweden 
e Kamtſchatka and the Eaſtern ocean; aud on the 
a the Frozen ocean to the forty- ſeventh degree of lati · 
eiii bounded by Poland, Little Tartary, Turkey, 
arne and Caſpian ſeas, Great Tartary, Chineſe Tar- 
bother unknown regions in Aſia. | 
vdo "compriſed under the name of Ruſſia, or the 
Ws greater extent than all the reſt of Europe, or than 
Mie in the zenith of its power, or the empire of Da- 
by Alexander, or both put together: the reader, - how- 
ee, that the knowledge the public has of this em- 
mately acquired ; and is (till ſo'doubtful, that its very 
den the limits between the European and Aſiatic 
WD the names of Ruſſia and Muſcovy, by which this em- 
y called, they probably are owing. to the ancient in- 
lhe Kuſſi, or Boruſk, and the river Molſea, upon which 
apital Moſcow was built; but of this we know nothing 


Mis great empire conſiſts, of thirty-one provinces, ; 


ee. | Chief towns, Dix. Provinces Chief towns. 
| Kola r Novogrod Novogtod 
Golatina 5 v [Kuff, Finland Wyburg 
Nenfkey Kemi ; 7 = 8 Ke xholm Kexholm | 
=  ([Meſeem > 8 Kaleria Notteburg 
o Archangel A [Ingria IPeterſburg 
9 G g 8 > Div. 


- 
z 


” 9 


24 N 0 FS 
Div. Provinces. Ch. towns. | Dip] Provinces, 
ad Syrianes 4 Kanrogod -o 4 h 1 | 
8 . Permia 5 Iſma ; | 
; Rubeninſki }Kargapol - mg | 
"> Belackeda 4 Wieser | I. 5 Livonia, | | 
„ JRezan, or 2? |; 00) 8 
© Pereſlaf $ n l . Www 
| = Belozero IBelozero 2 Smolenſko 
S [Wologda Wologda a rei 
. & !Jeraſlaf Jeraſlaf +" [Seefsk» © 
= [Tweer weer TIS Ukrain, or 
I [Moſcow + Moſcow © country of the 
2 Belgorod Woronetz [ ſold Coſlacy. 
| I Bulgar Bulgar EL 
5 v [Kaſan _  [Kafan |; + 
| = Czeremili © |Proleckarſa |” 
i © Lit. Novogrod ¶Niſe Novogr.|| - 
Don Coflacs Denetſæoi 


9 
4 


Seat. ] The ſeas of Ruſſia are, the"Tce-ſea, or Frozen-oct 
-ſea of Wygats, or Nova Zembla; the White-ſea, and the 
which the gulph of Finland is part, upon the North and 
Palus Mæotis, or ſea of A Zoph, on the South. Until the 
with Turkey, they were maſters of the North coalt of th 
ſea; and ſtill the old Coſſacs of Rufſia have a communicat 
the Euxine ſea, by the river Nieper, or Borilthenes, frog 
they frequently iſſue in great numbers in their wicker boat 
ed with ſkins, and invade the Turkiſh territories, bringi 
thouſands of unhappy wretches,, whom they make faves of 


Lakes.) There are lakes of vaſt extent in the North of Ri 
1. The lake of Ladoga; 2. Onega ; 3. the White lake 
lake; 5. Worſero ; and, 6, Pepus. | 


Rivers.] The rivers are, 1. The Tobol, which, rifing' 
runs North, and, joining the Irtis at - Toboliſki, the wat 
obtains the name of Irtis to 65 degrees'bf-North latitude; 
uniting with the river Oby, carries the name of Oby till t 
ſtreams fall into the Frozen - ocean, oppoſite to Nova Zemy 
ing Europe from Aſia. l 

2. The Mangaſea, which runs from South to North, 
the Oby, and falls into the Frozen-ocean. 

3. The Pezara, or Petzora, which, riſing in Fermia, 
South to North, and- falls into the Frozen+-ocean. ' 

4. The Dwina, which, riſing in Wologda, runs North, 
into the White-ſea, below Archangel.  : | 

F. The Wolga, olim Rha, which, riſing in Belozaro, ug 
Eaſt through European Ruſſia, receiving the Kivers Mol 
cow, Kiſma, Ocka, and Samar 0 then, bending ICS courſe i 
Eaſt, runs through Afiatic Ruſlia, and, aſter a courſ= ot . 
miles, falls into the Caſpan ſea below Aſtracan, by Jever? 


being the largeſt and deepeſt river in this Cone; 


- 


n A ra ' . 5s: 
gat the mouth, that great ſhips cannot paſs from Aftracan, 
. olim Tanais, which, riſing in the middle of 
| wctives the Woronetz, and then runs South-Ealt to Kami- 
then turning South-Weſt, falls into the ſea of Azoph, or Pa- 
receiving the Donetz above Azoph. , _ | "Ws bo 
I Neper, olim Boriſthenes, which, riſing in the province. 
+ runs. South-Welt- through Poland, then entering Mu- 
%* and paſſing by Niof, runs South-Eaſt through the Uk-- 


den due South through Tartary, falls into the Euxine 

— Dwina, which, riſing in he province of Moſcow, 
i through Poland, and then, dividing Poland from Livo- 
Linto the Baltic below Riga. r | 


Jul, Productiomt, Animal, In the Soutbern parts of 
ſtable, and Mineral. Ruſſia, or Muſcovy, the 
ur does not exceed fifteen hours and a half; whereas in the 
Wthern, the ſun is ſeen in Summer two months above the 
The reader ſrom this will naturally conclude, that there 
Koſeory a vaſt diverſity of fail as well as climate, and that 
wes of both are to be ſeen and felt in this vaſt empire. 
obſerves, that the North-Eaſt winds blow much coldet᷑ than 
kr in the beginning of the Winter, coming over valt tracts 
ud ice; but when the ſnows are fallen in the South, then 
þ winds are as cold as the North. | 
quickneſs of vegetation here, and in the other Northern 
w, ſhall be hereafter mentioned. The ſnow is the natural 
o Ruſſia, where grain grows in plenty, near Poland, and 
warmer provinces. The bulk of the people, however, are 
fed; the foil produces a vaſt number of muſhrooms for 
Willence; and in ſome places, beſides oaks and firs, Ruſſia 
Wburd, flax, hemp, paſture for cattle, wax, honey, rice, and 
The boors are particularly careful in the cultivation of 
Rich yields them plenty of metheglin, their ordinary drink; 
i eitract a ſpirit from rye, which they prefer to brandy. 
ry produces ſo much honey and wax as Ruſlia ; ſome 
* fortunes by theſe: articles. They will cut down ſeveral 
tees in the foreſts, and, dividing the trunks of the trees 
u parts, bore them hollow, ſtopping them up at both ends, 
My a little hole for the bees to go in; every man that cuts 
W prepares theſe trees for honey, has a property in them by 
Id the country; nor can the bears come at the honey, tho” 
rpetually in ſearch of it. 
Sapreat part of Ruſſia was populous in ſormer days, is not 
; thouzh it is equally certain, that the inhabitants, 
ere but little acquainted with agriculture z and ſupplied 
Si bread, as the inhabitants of Scandinavia do now, with 
An. duſt and a preparation of fiſli- bones. Peter the Great, 
&lors, down to the preſent empreis, have been at incre- 
An introduce agriculture into their dominions ; and tho” 
dt every where proper for corn, yet its valt fertility in 
Go 2 ſome 


is in the Southern countries of Europe, The vaſt comm 
by means of rivers, which the inland parts of that empire 
each other, ſerve to ſupply one province with thoſe pro 


| cloathing the inhabitants; but the furs of the black fore 


ſturgeon, cod, ſalmon, and belagas ; the latter reſemble 


m 
_ - no#m wwe ˙ DnH+lt., eo meas ¶— - — vs 2. 
* . 


4 — 
\ 8 


Wee 


8 x. U # © 1766 
ſome provinces, bids fair to make grain as commbn ih 


earth in which another may be deficient.” As to mines a, 
the ware plentiful in Ruſſia, and the people are daily in 
working them. n | 2 | 
The lynx, famous for its piercing-eye, is a native of ü 
and makes prey of every creature it can maſter : they un 
produced chiefly in the fir-tree foreſts. The hyznas. bes 
foxes, and other creatures already deſcribed, afford thi 


mine, are more valuable in Ruſſia than elſewhere. The 
and camel were formerly almoſt the only beaſts of burden 
many parts of Kuſſia. Czar Peter, encouraged a bre 
horſes for war and carriages j but thoſe employed in the 
purpoſes of life are but ſmall ; as are their cows and 
they ſalt for their Winter proviſions. 

The Kuſſians are better provided than their neighbours 


and is from 12 to 15 feet in length; its fleſh is white and 
Of the roe of the ſturgeon and the belaga, the Rohe 
famous cavear ; fo much eſteemed for its richneſs and 
it is otten ſent in preſents to crowned heads. 


Trafic and Manuſactures.] In treating of the Ruſſian 
former accounts are of little ſervice at this time, becauſe 
improvements and variations. By the beſt and ſureſt i 
the annual exports of Ruſſia at preſent amount to 4,000, 
bles; and her imports do not exceed $3,000,000; fo that 
of trade is yearly 225, ooo l. ſterling in her favour, Tl 
tion, however, is ſubject to ſuch untertainties as time al 
move, ariſing from Ruſſia's commercial connections 
Britain, from whom, about fourteen years ago, the 
greateſt part of that balance. Great Britain, however, 
time, gave ſuch encouragement to her American colon 
the ->cots and Iriſh” linen manufaQures, that her ic 
Ruſſia are greatly diminiſhed ; though the preſent war's 
ca may probably again increaſe the demand. On thei 
the vaſt advantages which, by later treaties between E 
Ruſſia, her imperial majeſty has been enabled to acqu 
Caſpian ſea, and in the inland parts of Afia, will pro 
than counterbalance all the diminution which the Ruſſian 
Great Britain may have ſuffered. | 

Ruſſia's productions and exports, in general, are mall 
valuable; viz. furs and peltry of various kinds, red 
and thread, iron, copper, ſail-cloth, hemp and flax, pit 
wax, honey, tallow, iſing-glaſs, lintſeed-o1l, pot-aſh, foal 
train-oil, hogs briſtles, muſk, rhuburb, ſpermaceti, Ca 
and other drugs; timber, and alfo raw ſilk from China 
Her foreign commerce is much increaſed ſince her con 


Sweden, eſpecially of Livonia and Ingria; and ſince the 


TU Þ BAT. 
nporium of Pererſburg, whereby her naval intercourſe 
i made much more ſhort and eaſy. | 133431 22; 
es on a commerce over land, by caravans; to China, 
urs : and they bring back from thence, tea, filks, cotton, 

ro Bochara, near the river Oxus, in Tartary, Ruffia 
wn mcrchandize, in return for Indian filks, curled lamb- - 
| ready money; and alſo trom the annual fair at Samar- 
likewiſe trades to Perſia, by Aſtracan, croſs the Caſpian 
bw and wrought ſilk. hy 
the time of Peter rhe Great, Archangel, which lies upon 
ſea, was the only port of naval communication which 
| vith the reſt of Europe; but it was ſubject to a long and 


The voyage. This town is about three Engliſh miles in 
add one in breadth : built all of wood, except rhe exchange, 
of tone. Notwithitanding the decreaſe of the trade of 


, by building Peterſburgh, it ſtill exports. a conſiderable 
ff merchandize. | a | 
and preſent empreſſes of Ruſſia, were ſo ſenſible of the 
ſing to commerce through peace, that they ſeem to have 
«ther valuable intereſts to that conſideration ; witneſs the 
ade by the empreſs Eliſabeth, to preſerve the tranquility 
b, in ſettling the Swediſh ſucceſſion; and the moderation 
preſent majeſty obſerved in her ſon's claims upon Den- 
te duchy of Holſtein when her huſband died. This dif- 
pwever, if not prudently prevented, may, ſome time or 
lle a general flame in the North, if not all over Europe. 


auſe 
ell a", Manners, and Cuſtomt.] Nothing can be more inju- 
coor remote from truth, than the accounts we have from au- 


the population of this vaſt empire ; the whole of which, 
does not exceed, at moſt, ſeven millions. It is ſurpri- 
ſuch a miſtake ſhould have continued fo long, when we 
e immenſe at mies brought into the field by the ſovereigns 
and the bloody wars they maintained in Aſia and Europe. 
is, perhaps, the firſt author who has attempted to un- 
public in this reſpect; and has done it upon very authen- 
bs, by producing a liſt, taken in 1747, of all the males 
de capitation, or poll-tax, and which amount to 6,646, 390. 
nder are included boys and old men; but girls and wo- 
it reckoned,” nor boys born between the making of one re- 
lands and another Now, if we only reckon triple the 
leads ſubje& to be taxed, including woman and girls, we 
ar 20,000,000 of ſouls. To this account maybe added 
lers, and 200,000 nobility and clergy ; and foreigners 
, who are likewiſe exempted from the poll - tax j as alfo 
oſtaire) the inhabitants of the conquered countries, name- 
„ Eſthonia, Ingria, Carelia, and a part of Finland; the 
and the Don Coffacs, the Calmucs, and other Tartars ; 
des, the Laplanders, the Oftiacs, and all the idolatrous 
feria. a country of greater extent than China, are not 
Its lit, Upon the whole,” this writer does not exagge - 
rate, 


* 4 
p LEY 

W A . L WL % 5 
a r 


2386 R Ul 
rate, when he affirms, that the inhabitants of Ruſſia do 
to fewer than 24, 000, 0 jꝓꝙ » 
As her imperial majeſty of all the Ru 
countries from whence the prodigious —— over 
over-threw the Roman empire iſſued, there is the ſtrongeſ 
believe, that her dominions mult have been better — ' 
than they are at preſent ;| 24;000;000 being but à thin ns 
for the immenſe tracts of country ſhe poſſeſſes. As the like 
of inhabitants is obſervable in many other parts of the globe 
to look for the reaſon in natural cauſes, which we can 
here. Perhaps the introduction of the ſmall-pox, and the 
diſeaſe, may have aſſiſted in the depopulation; and it is kit 
the prodigious quantity of ſtrong; and ſpiritous liquors, «« 
by the inhabitants of the North, is unſriendly to generation, 
The Ruſſians, properly ſo called, are in general a perſons 
ple, hardy, vigorous, and patient of labour, eſpecially in 
to an incredible degree, Their complexions differ little f 
of the Engliſh or Scots; but the women think that an add 
red heightens their beauty. Their .eye-ſight ſeems to be & 
occaſioned, probably, by the ſnow, which for ſo long a tin 
year is continually preſent to their eyes; Their officers, and 
always. poſſeſſed a large ſhare of paſſive valour ;z but in the 
with the king of Prulka, they proved as active as any troops 
rope. They are implicitly ſubmiſſive to diſcipline, let it be 
ſevere ; and on ſuch occaſions they appear to be void ef the 
tions to which other people are ſubject, eſpecially in the t 
their repaſts, and hardneſs of their ſare. 
Before the days of Peter the Great, the Ruſſians were | 
ignorant, mean, and much addicted to drunkenneſs ; no fe 
4000 brandy ſhops have been reckoned in Moſcow, Not « 
common people, but many of the boyars, lived in a contin 
of idleneſs and intoxication ; and the molt complete objedts « 
and barbarity preſented themſelves upon the ftreets, while 
of Moſcow was by far the molt ſplendid of any upon the giol 
Czar and the grandees dreſſed aſter the moſt ſuperb Alatier 
and their magnificence exceeded every idea that can be coi 
from modern examples, The earl of Carliſle, in the accoun 
embaſly, ſays that he could ſee nothing but gold and precio 
in the robes of the Czar and his courtiers. The manuladu 
ever, of thoſe, and all other luxuties, were carried on by 
Germans, and other foreigners, Peter Jaw the bulk of his! 
at his acceſſion to the throne, little better than bealts of by 
ſupport the pomp of the court. He forced his great men t01 
their long robes, and dreſs in the European manner; and 
obliged the laity to cut off their beards. _ The other umpron 
in learning and the arts, which he made, ſhall be mentioned ei 
The Rufffans, before his days, had not a, ſhip upon cher 
They had no conveniencies for travelling, no pavemens 
ſtreets, no places of public diverſion ; and they entertaines 
reign contempt for all improvements of the mind. At pre 
French or Engliſh gentlemen may make a ſhift to hive 6 
ably and ſociably in Ruſſia, as in any other part of Europe. 


4 


4 they make uſe of, diffuſe a more equal and genial 
Yan our grates and chimnies. Their polite aſſemblies have, 
<ceſſion of the preſent empreſs, been put under proper re- 
ud ſew of the ancient uſages remain, but ſuch as are of 
and adapted to the nature of their country. It is, 


7 


in po radence of ſucceeding governments, drunkennefs ſtill con- 
Yin N ö :, _ " 
I Prople of diſtinction in Ruſſia now dreſs, as nearly as the 
vill admit, after the 45 and French manner. The 
ple are cloathed with long coats, made of dreſt ſheep 
th the wool towards their bodies. Theſe are admirably a- 
» the climate, and coſt only nine ſhillings. They alfo uſe a 
th, in which they ſwaddle their legs and feet ; this is ſe- 


* 2 cord of reeds, their ſandals being alſo of the ſame mate- 
n or caps are lined with fur, and cover their ears and necks 
de their heads. They wear ſaſhes round their waiſt, and 


one of woolen and the other of leather, which 
the hand without any diſtinction, except the thumb; and 


and . 
— | ao an eſſential part of their cloathing. The women, be- 
op p:tticoats, wear ſheep {kins as well as the men. The rea- 


pleaſe to obſerve that this, or what comes very near it, is 
ral dreſs of all the Northern nations of Europe and Aſia. 


be Ruſſians entertain many fantaſtic notions with re - 
the ſtate of departed ſouls. After.the dead body, is dreſt, a 


fer ured to pray for his ſoul, to purify it with the incenſe, and 
Not een with holy water, while it remains above ground, which, 
ie e better ſort, it generally does for eight or ten days. When 
Qs j 


[is carried to the grave, which is done with many | pr 
brow, the prieſt produces a ticket, ſigned by the biſhop 
Mer clergyman, as the deceaſed's paſſport to heaven. When 


Mere they drown their forrow in intoxication ; which laſts, 
te better ſort, with a few intervals, for 40 days, During 
a prieſt every day ſays prayers over the grave of the de- 
for though the Ruſſians do not believe in purgatory, yet. 


barney, to the place of his deſtination after this life. 


Wert: The Ruſſians are remarkable for the ſeverity and 
a their puniſhments, which are both inflicted and endured 
wonderful ſenſibility. Peter the Great uſed to ſuſpend the 


ed to their ribs, on gibbets, where they writhed themſelves 
* hundreds, nay, thouſands, at a time. The ſingle and 

te were lately inflicted upon ladies, as well as men of 
boch of them are excruciating, but in the double knoute, 


EU 85 F 4 239 


9 be obſerved, that notwithſtanding the ſeverity of Peter, 
all ranks 3 nor are even prieſts or ladies aſhamed of it” 


i into the coffin, the company returns to the deceaſed's 


Ine that their departed friend may be aſſiſted by prayer, in 


won the Wolga, and other parts of his dominions, by iron 


N , ** bound behind the priſoner's back, and the cord being 
pulley, liſts him from the ground, with the diſlocation of 


* = 
= 


249. R U 8 8 Er 0 
both his ſhoulders ; and then his back is in a Manner 
the/executioner, with a hard thong, cut from a wild a6 

- , puniſhment has been ſv often fatal, that a ſurgean eue 
the patient, to pronounce the moment that it ſhould 

ther barbarous puniſhment practiſed in Kullia is, fed 
tongue of the criminal through with a hot iron, and the 
out; and evenythe late empreſs Eliſabeth, though ſhe; 
pital puniſhments, was forced to give way to the necel 
tortures. From theſe particulars, -many have conch 
feelings of the Ruflians are different from thoſe of mul 


| Travelling.) Among the many conveniences il 
into Ruſſa, that of travelling is extremely remarkable, 
pence very trifling. Nothing ſtrikes, either à reader g 
more than the facility with which the Ruſſians perform 
and moſt uncomfortable journies. Like their Scandinax 
bours, already deſcribed, they travel in ledges drawn} 
when the ſnow is frozen hard enough to bear them. Tn 
parts of Ruſſia, horſes draw their 2 4 and. the fled 
wards February, becomes ſo well beaten, that they 
coach upon the ledges, in which they travel night andd 
they often perform a journey of about 400 miles, ſuck 
tween Peterſburgh and Moſcow, in three days and i 
Her imperial majeſty, in her journies, is drawn in g 
contains a bed, a table, chairs, and other convenienas 
people, by 24 poſt- horſes; and the houſe itſelf is fixed an 


Cofſacs, and other Nations, Subject to Ruſſia-] Az the} 
jets of the Ruſſian empire, in its moſt .extenſive-lak, 1 
ſcendents'of many different people, and inhabit prodigu 
country, ſo we find among them a. vaſt variety a 
manners; and the great reſormations mtroduced of tus 
well as the diſcoveries made, render former accounts ts 

depended upon. Many of the Tartars, who inhabit uy 
of the Ruſſian dominions, now live in fixed houſes, and ni 
tivate the land, and pay tribute like other ſubje&s: N 
were not admitted into the Kuſhan armies; but they non 
cellent ſoldiers. Other . Ruſſian Tartars retain thew od 
lives. Both ſides of the Wolga are inhabited by the £8 
Morduars ; a peaceable indultrious people; The dann 
wiſe fixed inhabitants of the tract that reaches from Wu 
frontiers of Siberia; and have certain privileges, om 
tenacious, The wandering Calmucs occupy the rell ol 
Aſtracan and the frontiers of the Uſbecs z and 1a 
certain preſents they receive from her imperial majelty 
2 her armies without pay, but are apt to plunder equal 

oes. | | | © 234 
As the Coſſacs make now a figure in the mia 
rope, ſome account of them may not be unacceptable 
originally Poliſh peaſants, and ſerved in the UHU 
gainſt the Tartars, Being oppreſſed by their uni; 


4 $ * 46 2 Gov ; © 1. 
„el to the uncultivated banks of the Don, or Tanais, 
fiſhed a colony. They were ſoon aſter joined, in 1637 
„ detachments of their countrymen; and they reduced 
wich they were obliged to abandon to the Turks, after lay- 
ke They next put themſelves under the protection of 
bai Circaſky, on an iſland in the Dong and their 
which conſiſtec of 39 towns on both ſides that river, 
. Kibna to Aſoph. They there lived in a fruitful coun- 
they took care to cultivate z and they were ſo wedded to 
Acuſtoms, that they were little better than nominal ſub · 
Curse, till the time of Peter the Great. bey proſeſſed 
teligion ; their inclinations were warlike, and occaſional- 
guat the Tartars and Turks on the Palus Mzotis. 
gorernment of the Collars approaches very near to 
form of that of the ancient Germans, as deſcribed by 
The captains and officers of the nation chuſe à chief, 
tall Hauptman, and he reſides at Cirkaſka; but this 
firmed by the Czar; and the hauptman holds his au- 
ng life, He acts as à ſuperior over the other towns of 
each of which is formed into a ſeparate commonwealth, 
by its own hauptman, who is choſen annually. They 
in conſideration of their enjoying their laws and liber- 
indeed have ſeveral times rebelled,” for which they ſuf- 
ly under Peter the Great. But the Ruſſian yoke was ſo 
t than that of the Poles, that in 1654, the Coſſacs of the 
themſelves likewiſe under the protection of Ruſſia. They 
L however, that their liberties had been invaded ; and 
between Charles XII. and Peter, their hauptman, Ma- 
ell the former ; but he found himſelf unable to fulfil the 
promiſes he had made to Charles. He brought over, 
bme of the Zaparovian Coſſacs, who are ſettled: about tho 
mer Nieper, but mòſt of them were cut in piece. 
bans were formerly noted for ſb ſtrong an attachment to 
ſoil, that they ſeldom viſited foreign parts. This, how- 
duly the conſequence of their pride and ignorance z for 
pity, beſides thoſe who are in a public. character, are 
at every court in Europe. Her imperial majeſty even 
l in the education of young men of quality, in the 
of the world, and foreign ſervices, particularly that of 
feet. No people have ſhewn a greater adventuring ſpirit 
Mans; witneſs the diſcovery of Kamtſchatka, a country 
, that it is doubtful to what quarter of the globe it per- 
certainly bids the faireſt country in the world, to lie 
b America; and perhaps it may ſoon appear, that the 
e and Americans are the ſame. | „ 
u to be of Tartar original; and before they were hu- 
er appearance and manners partook ſtrongly of thoſe of 
aur in North America. The beſt account we have of 
s from Mr Steller and Mr Krafheninicoff, the latter 
ed their diſcoveries, under the ſanction of the Pe- 
Keny, | | EAN 
Fai, or more properly Tartars, inhabiting an unknown 
H h extent 


| bas been already hinted, are Gill groſs. Pagans and 
Vere ſo barbarous, that Peter the Great thought be coul 

| A greater ppniſhment upon his capital enemies the Swede 
baniſhing the n to Siberia. The effect was, that the Swed! 
and ſoldiers introduced European uſages and manufac 
country, and thereby acquired a comfortable living, -] 
metan Tartars form a conſiderable part of the natives: 


CES ing to the lateſt accounts, Nature has been fo kind * 
that an exile to Siberia will hereafter be but a very {light | 


ion.] The eſtabliſhed religion of Ruſſia is that of 
| church, the tenets of which arg by far too numerous and 
8 It is ſuthcient to ſay, that the 
vpe's fupremacy ; and though they diſclaim image-we 
retain many idolatrous and ſuperſtitious cuſtoms. Their 
full of pictures of ſaints whom they conſider as mediate 

| obſerve a number of faſts and lents, fo that they live 
very abſtemiouſly ; an inſtitution which is extremely con 

| + their ſoil and climate. They have many peculiar notio 
gard to the ſacraments and Trinity. - They oblige their bi 
not their prieſts, to celibacy. Peter the Great hi 
knowledge of government in nothing more than the ref 
his church. droke the dangerous powers of the pat 
the great clergy. He declared Himſelf the head of thed 
pronrocd the ſubordinations of metropolitans, archb 
biſhops. Their prieſts have no fixed income, but depend 
tence upon the benevolence of their flacks and hearery, 


eſtabliſhing this great political refarmation, left his 1 
poſſeſſion of all their idle ceremonies ; nor did he cut of 1 
of his clergy ; that impolizic attempt was reſerved for the WW :: 
ror, and greatly contributed to his fatal cataltrophe. fey 
days, an incredible number of both ſexes were ſhut up wi :c: 
nor has it been found prudent entirely to abaliſh thoſe & 1 


abuſes of them, however, are in a great meaſure rem 
male can become a monk till he is turned of 30 and no 
nun, till ſhe is 50; and even then not without the er 
of their ſuperiors. 1% be 
The conquered provinces, as I have already obſerved 
exerciſe of their own religion; but ſuch. is the extent of 
= empire, that many of its fubjects are Mahometans, and ml 
0 better than Pagans, in Siberia and the unculuyate 
Many ill-judged attempts have been made to convert thet 
: which have only tended to confirm them in their inhdel 


Language.) Their language is a_mixture of the | 
3 Polch. The Ruſſian Pater - noſter is as follows: 2 
na nebeſech ; da ſuetitfia imia tvoie z da pridet tzarfioie tv 
via /a tvoia j alo na nebeſt i na zemli ; chleb naſh meſuſchas 


| neighbourhood of Peterſburg, which is Alta gen 
fortreſs and city employed, for ſome years, 300000 mm 


whole plan, with à very little afliſtance from ſome Gems 
which he raiſed to his people, at the tiche Wheg they « 
wonderful than all, he 2 in all thoſe ama 


reader may have à better idea, af its ſituation, by being 
the bottom of the Finland Gulph, In the year 1-703, this 


nue, navigation, war, commerce, and the like, that are wo 


4 pen of architecture in Europe In the middle of ubs d 
miralty and dock- yards are likewiſe well fortilied; 


ſhips trading to it in the Summer time is ſurprijinge.1 


and it ſtill continues conſiderable enough to figure 


Wu | : | 
0 


pn _ | 7 "OY X oF, 
244 NR 


tO 


its foundations, and driving piles, night and daga 
no monarch in. Europe ( Petor excepted) could have enen 


was drawn by his own hand. Equally. wonderfal wa 
ſaid to have poſleſſed a ſhip in any part of the globe, i : 


with the ſame aſſiduity as if 


Cities, Towns 5 Palaces, and ather kh Buildi dings. ] Peter 
ly takes the lead in this diviſion. It lies at che und of 
with the lake Ladoga, already mentioned, in latitude & 


that it Rands on both ſides the river Neva, between tha 


ſiſted of two ſmall filhing-buts, on à. ſpot fo'-waterilh aa 
that the ground was formed into nine iſlands ; by which, 
to Voltaire, its principal quarters are ſtill divided. Wide 
ing into too minute a Yeſcription of this wonderful c 
cient to ſay, that it extends about fix miles every wayz ad 
every ſtructure for magnificence, the improvement of the 


in the molt celebrated cities in Europe. It may aper 
that the lateſt authors who treat of that country, dier wi 
the population of Peterſburgh. . Voltaire tells d, it 
contain at preſent 400,000 fouls, Hanway 250,000,000 
100,000: The. new Summer palace is reckoned ane of 


s neither gates nor walls) is a ſtrong, beautiful fort; 
As Peterſburg, is the emporeum of Ruſſia, the numbers 


3000 one-horſe ledges are employed for paſlengers.n mew 
contains twenty: Ruſſian, and four Lutheran charches, 
of the Calviniſts and Roman-Catholics and is the kat 
ſity, and ſeveral academies, Peterſburg is the capital & 
vince of Ingria, one of Peter. the Great's conquelts from un 

The city of Moſcow was formerly the glory. of. thus gre 


of Europe. It ſtands, as has been already. mentioned, en 
from whence it takes its name, in lat, 55-45, ben ei 
Eaſt of London; and though its ſtreets are not regular, 
a very pictureſque appearance, for it contains fuck @ guns 
dens, -groves, lawns, and ſtreams, that it ems e 
tivated country than a city. The ancient maggieene 

would be incredible, were it not atteſted by the maß wann 
authors: but we are to make great allowanges-for the und 
fate of the adjacent provinces, which might haue mane 
with a greater luſtre in a traveller's eyes, Neither " | 


Puſching gives us any ſatisfactory account of this capital; 


: * 
1 


1 * 3307 a 
be given to The authors who divide it into regular quar · 


* 


contains 1600 churches and convents, and 43 palaces 
Buſching makes the merchants exchange to contain a · 


nd from China. No city diſplays a greater contralt, than 
Stunts in general are miſerable timber booths z but their pa · 


ſurcbes, convents, aud other public edißces, are | ſpacious 
Ide Krimlin, or grand imperial palace, is mentioned 


* be molt ſuperb ſtructures in the world : it lies in the inte: 
60 » of the city, and contains the old imperial palace, plea - 
ug! and fables, a victualing- houſe, the, palace which for : 
that longed to the patriarch, nine cathedrals, five! convents, 
this > churches, the arſenal, with the public colleges, and 

All the churches-in-the Krimlin have beautiful ſpires, mo 


gilt er covered with ſilver: the architecture is in the Gothic 
2 the infides of the churches are richly ornamented ; aud 
es of the ſaints are decorated with gold, ſilver, and ꝓreci 
«. Mention is made of the cathedral, which has no fewer 
ne towers, covered with copper double gilt, and contains a 


ps magnificence. Its r monuments of the great 
d Czars, the magazine, t 

he chancery, are noble ſtructures. The public is no 

rbarous anecdote, that the Czar John Baſilides ordered the 
| of the church of Jeruſalem to be deprived of his eye · ſight, 
night never contrive its equal. The ſtory is — 
its riſe from the arbitrary diſpoſition of that great prince. 
and ornaments of an image of the Virgin Mary, in the 
church, and its other furniture, can be only equalled by 
ſen at the famous Holy Houſe of Loretto in Italy. Me 


Moſcow at the time he was building Peterſburg ; for he cau· 
& pared, adorned with noble edinces, and enriched it with 


Wir, Laws, and diſlindion 7 Rank.) The conſtitution and 
Wl, like thoſe of other arbit 


gude them, both in criminal and civil matters, which al · 
K place, when no interpoſition of government happened to 
tide. The Czar Alexis, who mounted the throne in 1645, 
u imperfe&t code of laws: but he never could ſufficiently 

being perpetually engaged in war, either foreign or 


the Great never could bring his ſubjects into that ſtate 
KO as to truſt them with any law but his own will. In 
U wportance, ſach as, the trying and condemning his ſon 

| | 80 


inhabited by a different order or profeſſian. 


— of it as the Jargeſt city in Europe : hut that can be 
1 l to the ground: it ſtands on. It is generally. agreed, 


e hops, which diſplay. a aft parade of commerce, eſper 
of naguiñcence and mennneſs in building. Tbe houſes of 


ich with forty-eight lights, ſaid to weigh 2800 pounds, = 
would ſcarcely ſuffice to regount the other particulars of wa 


patriarchal palace, the exche» | 


lays, that Peter, who was attentive. to every thing, did not 


rary governments, reſt in/the | 
be Sovereign, The ſubjects, however, had ſome general 


; 0 that they became in a manner uſeleſs or unknown. 


L 


. 
- 
F 4 


- 


5 

= * = 

1 22 
_m.; N 


Li 


Te 


* 


The Roffian monarchy is hereditary, but after à particil 
for the ſenate of the at lords make themſelves judges of 
iüaity of blood in their ſovereighs ; s way be ſeen in the 
| The preſent empreſs was raifed to the throne, by being u 
emperor, and mother of his'fon ; 4nd ſhe has ſufficiently jul 
 partiality that has been ſhewn het, by the wiſdom; patric 
our of her ment; bat in nothing ſo much as in he 


* 
10 * 
o 


ive her ſubjects a new code of laws. With this view, in 
from all the diſtricts 
to in effeQ;, a 
. ive juſtice ; 


nat virtues, The code which lus ba 
public, at leaſt to the reſt of Bun 


part 
conſtitution, The late empreſſes took che title of Autor 
implies that they owed their dignity to no earthly power. 
cient nobility were divided into ktiezes, or khazeys, b 


boyars were nobility under the kne#es; and the wave 
vernors of provirices. Thoſe titles, however, ſo often 
ideas of their ancient power, that the preſent and late ent 
introduced among their ſubjects the titles of counts nd 
—. the other diſtinctions of nobility that are common to 
A ſenate, compoſed of the moſt reſpectable members 6 
pire, ſtill ſubſiſts in Ruſſia; but though the emprels treats 
tution with the higheſt regard and deference; and ſubinits 
eſt concerns of her empire to their deliberation, yet they 
ter than her privy couneil: and they ſeldom or never gt 
advice, but ſuch as is confortnable to her pleaſure. ' 


| Revenue, Army, and Erpeucer. Nothing certain enn b. 
cerning the revenues of this mighty empire; but they ws 
edly at preſent, far ſaperior to what they were in former 8 
under Peter the Great. The vaſt exertions for promos 


— 


' 


excluſive of her ordinary expences of ſtate. by: 
of the Ruſſian revenues ariſe from monopolies ; which are: 
xefary in the inftney of commerce. The moſt hazardous 
| undertaken by Peter the Great, was bis imitating the 
of Henry VIII. of England, in ſeizing the revenues of the 
He found, perhaps, that policy and neceſſity required that 
et part of them ſhould be reſtored, which was accordingly . 
u great aim being to deprive the patriarch of his ve. - 
The clergy, however, are taxed in Ruſſia : but the pecu- 
nes of the crown ariſe from taxes upon eſtates, bagnios, 
1 fikeries, and other ” | . 
ming army of Ruſſia is compnted at near 250, 00 men z 
e 
s, and other irregular troops; and on any parti- 
rgency that number can be doubled. Their fleet of late 
to near fiſty ſhips of the line : and, what. would have been 
credible fifty years ago, they have now a conſiderable 
an built, acting in the Mediterranean againſt the Turks. 
luſkan armies are raiſed at little or no expence , and while 
n country, ſubſiſted chiefly on proviſions furniſhed them 
puntry people, according to their internal valuation. 


WW torn (fays late traveller th Ruſſia) from Tobolſky to gt Peter- 
Dur 2 houſe where I was to , I found a father chained to a 
Bel his family: by his cries, and the little his cþildren to 
Er but this was . * 
recruits, go throu eV tch upen the men 
[& ſervice, — in A Aer patts, go into the folds to mark the 
mn 5 on had been ſelected for the ſervice, and made bis eſcape without: 
Tudaz: the father was made a priſoner in bis own houſe ; his chil- 
pales, ard he was in daily expectation of receiving his ſentenee. 1 
becked vith this account, and with the ſcene I beheld, that I was for- 
et lodging immediat £4 | 
Hier 


* 


/ I 
fſiech.] It is evident, both from unc iert billed; 
coveries, that ſome of the moſt neglected parts of che N. 
at preſent, were formerly rich and populous. The 
throws his eyes on a general map of Europe and Afi; 1 
advantages of their ſituation, and their communicate 
Greek empires. | In latter: times, the Aſiatie part sf bu 
ed with Samarcand, in Turtary, onde the capital, unde 
han and Tamerlane of à far more rich and po e 
any mentioned in hiſtory; and nothing is mort certain, 
the conqueſt of Ruſſia was among the ſaſt attempts made 
mer of thoſe princes-. We . cannot, wich the fallen das 
bability, carry our conjectures, with regund 0 thethiſtiryq 
higher than the introduQion of Chriſtianity which hare 
- tenth century ; when a princeſs of this country, alle 
ſaid to have been baptized in Conſtantinople, and ehe 
of the Greek emperor, John Zimiſtes, in marriage I 
for the Ruſſians adopting the Greek religion, "and party 
phabet. Photius, the famous Greek patriarch; ſeat pri 
tie the Ruſſians, who were for ſome time ſubſec 0 the 
ſtantinople; but the Greek patriarchs afterwardz wege 
authority over the Ruſſian church; and id bilkops ee 
ſelves into patriarchs, Who were in u manner independent 
vil power. It is certain, that till the year ie e 
Ruſſia were but very little conſidered being chietly ae 
Tartars. It was about this time, that John, or Tn Vail 
quered the Tartars, and, among others, the Pute of Gr 
gorod : from whom he is ſaid to have carried 3 i 
maler, © 2 0h car 
His grandſon, the famous John«Bafilowitz I g 
country of the intruding Tartars, fubdued the Tngdoms 
and Aſtracan Tartary, in Aſia, and annesed them 
dominions. By his cruelty, howeyer, be obiges ew 
ſome of his fineſt provinces, particularly Lixons and ul 
throw themſelves under the protection of the Polesand on 
fore the . this John II. the — of Ruſſia took 
of Welike Knez, i. e. great prince, greatlord; or grearen 
the Chriſtian 2 rendered by that bf 4 
The title of Tzar, or as we call it, Czar, was added 
Kuſſian ſovereigns, but it ſeeiths to have been of eren 
original; becauſe at firſt, it was applied only. 4 Pale 
and the Afian Siberia. Upon the death of John Baws 
Ruſſian ſueceſſion was filled up by a ſet of weak run en 
their Territories were torn in pieces by civil wart In 2nd 
Godonow, according to Voltaire, whoſe information I fr 
ſeems to be the moſt authentic, aſſaſſinated Detistii ar Hen 
| Jawful heir, and uſurped the-throne, . A young monrwe 
of Demetrius, pretending to be that prince who bad el 
his murderers; and with the aſſiſtance of rhe poles and i i ve 
able party (which every tyrant has agaigſt 92 
uſurper, and ſeized the crown himſelf, The impaler um 
ed as ſoon as he came to the ſovereignty, becaulewes 


: 1 
4 
* 


1 


U 
, 
v1 
wa 
19 
3 
13 
lf 
1 
1 
| 
ö 
ö 
. 
=. 
1 
' 
. 
1 
pe 
'1 
4 
© - 
LE. 
1 
| 
| 


F 
«4 hic and he ws mürdered. Three other falſe Do- 
tarted up one after another... ot 
;agoltures prove the deſpicable ſtate of ignorance in which 

Their country became by-turns a prey 


4 were . 
1. and the Swedes 3 but was at length delivered by the - 


of the boyars, impelled by their deſpair, 3 
The independeney of Ruſſia was then on the poi 

Weibel Uladiſlaus, ſon to Sigifmund II. of oland, 
Iclared Czar; but the tyranny of the Poles was ſuch, 

duced 2 general rebellion of the Ruſſians, who drove the 
of Moſcow, where they bad for ſome time defended them- 

þ unezampled c Philaretes, archbiſhop of Rot 

| ol the ancient ſovereigus of Ruſſia, h 


her being exchanged tor ſome Poliſh priſoners, ret | 

ul being created partriarch by his ſen, be rei in the 

1 right with great prudence and faceels. defeated 
ts of the Poles to replace Uladiflaus upon the throne, and 

he claims of a brother of Guſtavus Adolphus, king of Swer 
ſubmitted- to young Michael without any terms. The 
the Swedes and Poles upon Ruſſia, occafioned a war be- 
iſe two people, which gave Michael a kind of a breathing- 
| he mad* uſe of it for the benefit of his ſubjects. I find, 
aſter the election of, Michael,” James I, of England ſent, 
m Sir John Meyrick, as his ambaſſador to Ruſha, 
te commercial affairs, and to reelaim a certain ſum of mo- 
þ James had advanced to Michael or his predeceſſars. The 
wort however, was ſo ignorant of che affairs of that coun- 
ma Ruſſian company had been then eſtablilhed at London, 
s was actually unacquainted with the Czar's name and 
be gave him no other denomination than that of Great 
Lord of Ruffia. Three years aſter, James and Michael 
mech better acquainted z and the latter concluded a com- 
maty with England, which ſhews him to have been not on- 
quainted with the intereſts of his on ſubjects, but the laws 
of nations. Before we take leave of Michael, who. far- 
father, I am to mention the modes of the Crar's nuptials, 
culd not introduce into the miſcellaneous cuſtoms. of their 
ud which are as follow + His Czariſh, majeſty's intention 
being known, the moſt celebrated beauties of his dominions 
for to court, and there-entertained. | They were viſited by 
jad the moſt magnificent nuptial preparations were made, 
* dappy lady was declared, by ſending her magnificent je w- 
i vedding robe. The reſt of the candidates were then diſ- 
teir ſeveral homes, with ſuitable preſents. The name of 
| inher, ho pleaſed Michael, was Streſchnen ; and he 
ZZ CROWDS: to eb of” HEN 


* 


TE 


männer. © He appeurs em have been d pine a e 
kecovered Smolenſko, Kiow, and the: Mbratue g bet 


into his domimong: and iaſiead of putting 46 d ar. 


thy of being ſatber to Peter the Great. 
Alexis leſt behind him three ſous and u daughter, who 


the improvement of his ſubjects 3 but his bodily infirmitier 
_ His brother Iwan, being almoſt bliud and dumb, and al 


- eheck the fury of the Strelitzes, and other inſurgents 


the Strelitzes, who defeated or deſtroyed Sophia par 


2 + v 83 S8 yy, 4 , 
was ploughing his own farm, when ir MW 
was father-in-law to the Czar, 0/1 #50 a at 
Alexis fuceceded his father Michael, and was nel 


te in the wars with the Swedes: When the Grands; 
met IV. yhtily demanded awe poſſeſſtons um 
Ukraine, his /anfwer was, „that hevſtoened to fabini 
dog, and that his ſcymitar was a8. good dd the On 
ſabre.“ He attempted to draw up code of laws fory 
verument of his ſubjects, which id did to be ſtilh in beg 
tivated a polite correſpondence” with the atlier powers; 
and even with the court of Rome, though he'otdered i 
dors not to kiſs the Popes: toe. He tubduedachichel 
Coſſics, named Stenko Rafin, he endeavouredis tn 
king of Aftracan+ and the rebe}; with” 1236000 of hit adbe 
hanged on the high roads. He introduced linen andkt 


_ Eithnariany Polity, and Tartar priſoners, he ſearthem ts 
banks of the Wolga and the Rama He died ſudden; 


_— pos bo ſpirit. The names of the ſons 
odore, Iwan or John, and Peter, We Was bya esel 
Theodore mounted the throne; and ſhewed excellent dif 


kim from carrying them into execution. He died without 


tempered, Theodore, before his death, named bis v 
Peter, to the foverei though then only v0 y ů - 
deftination was diag to che àmbitious princeſs: 
the found means to extite a horrible ſedirion'among the 
who then formed the Randing army ef Ruſfta. Tit 
poſſes all defeription; but Sophia, dy ber nnen 
Her brother Iwan in his birthright and exerelle@ = 
herſelf, with the greateſi ſeverity und Hilfumanity yfor-al 
flan grandees who were related to Peter, or whonl he 
favour him, were put to eruel deaths .'Theinkaneer gn 
raire, of her inhuman admifiiftration, are ſhoching to h 
length, in 1682, the two pries? Ivan and -Fetery e 
joint ſovereigns, and their fifter their aſſociate ana any 
adminiſtration was bloody and tumultuous 3 nor dt l. 


debility in her own perſon, The intended to have 
fl Galitzin, who is ſaid to have been u man f ſenſe and 
ſome learning. Being placed” at che head of the u! 
he marched into Crim Tartary ; but Peter was nu ann 
of age, and aſſerted his right to the throne.” Sophia and 
then at Moſcow z and upon Peter's publiſhing aloud; the 
racy had been formed by his ſiſter to murder bim, M 1 


9 


— 
— 
— 


ns confiſcated a und the following curious ſentence ws 
4 25 his punihment, 4 Thou art commanded by the moſt 
to repair t0-K.ergaz. a town under the pole, and there 
+ the remainder Of thy days. His majeſty, out of his en- 
refs, allows thee three pence per day for-thy ſubſiſtence. 
death of Iwan, which happched in 2696, Peter-reigne« 
. TALSACS 
lier exceed the bounds pveſeribed in this wr. to give 
6 mary detail of this great prince's actions. ay way 
dom the hiſtories of the Northern nations, Poland, Ger- 
den; and other countries; ſome of Which I have already 
| x5 Lintend to do the reſt. All cherefore that is nece ſſary 
1 is to give a general view of his power, and the galt 
un be introduced ; into his. dominionsg3333ss ; 
t uards the end obuthe laſt century, though be had been 
adifferently .cducatedyilthrough the jealouſy of his ſiſter, a 
umſelf with Germans and Dutch 4 the former ſor the ſake 
mactaQures, which he early introduced into his dominions: 
latter, for their ſkill in navigation, hichahe practiſed his 
pinclinatious for the arts were encouraged by his favourite 
a Piedmonteſe-; and ——— Gy | —— otſman, _ 
Czar's own regiment, ing of gon forei While 
raiſed à regiment of 12,000, among whom he introduced 
and German exeiciſes bf arma, ih a vie of employ- | 
i curbing the inſolences of the Gtrelitzes. Peter, after 
un bis travels; leaving his military affairs in the hands of 
He ſet out as an attendant upon his on ambaſſadors ; 
lentures in Holland and England, and echürte, are 
wous, and too well knaten, to be inſerted here. By work- 
common ſhip-carpenter!at Deptford and Saardam, he com - 
nielt in ſnip · building and navigation ; and thruugh the ex- 
leipline introduced among his troops by the foreigners, be 
orer · Wed or cruſhed all civil inſurrections, but all his ene - 
his fide of Aſia; and at laſt: he even exterminated;: all 
regiments, the whole body of the Strelitzes. He 
through every rank and ſervice both by ſea and land: and 
dcſeats which he received, eſpecially by Charles XII. at 
ned only to enlarge his umbition, and / extend his ideas, 
ler he loſt rendered him a conqueror upon the Whole, by 
perience to his courage; and the generdus ſriendſhip he 
Auguſtus, king of Poland. his ally, Hothi , beſore and àſter 
mroned by the king of Sweden, redounds greatly to his 
He had no regard for. rank, diſting from merit 3 and dhe 
nid, by the name of Cathézine, à young Lithuanian wo- 
dad been betrothed to à Swediſh ſoldier ; becauſe; aſtet 
Witation, he found her paiſe ſſed of a ſoul ſormed to execute 
and to aſſiſt his counſels Catherine was ſo much al ran 
dun country, that her huſband aſterwards diſcovered her 
do ſerved as a common ſoldier in his armies. But-mili- 
aral triumphs, which ſucceeded; one another aſter the de- 
at Pultowa over Charles XII wert not the chief glo- 
| I i-2 ; | ries 


= 
- 
— — - . — 
— — * — = — = m — — — 
— ———— — ———— 
— — 


—— — — 


. A ere — en eee tte — — 


— 
— ö 


= — 


aw C4 v9. 8 8 T x” 
_ "have already mentioned, to the cultivatiom uf om 
and ſciences; and, upon the Whole, ieanade tack ac 
dominion, even in Europe itſelf, that hem be de 
his death, which happened in 1725, to have been them 
prince of his age. * (i? 4, 5, War A 4/142 5" 3 writs En 
Petor the Great was unfortunate in his eldeſt un, w 
the Czarewitz, and who marrying without bis chnet, + 
His father alledged, into fome dangerous-pradicesagzinki 
and government; for which he was tried and:condemned; 
Under a ſovereign ſo deſpotic as Feter was wr can fay no 
to the juſtice of the charge. Ie was, bis 
HI the young prince thould be found guilty z but he dd wi 
2 ſever, before Ris ſentence was put inte executions e 
| then ordered his wife Catherine/ta;he-orowned;avith the 
nincent ceremonies as if ſhe had been a-Greekenpreſ 
recognized as his ſueceſſor: which dhe according 
ed the Ruſſianthrone She died, after a glory ee 
and was ſucceeded by Peter ILea mino ſam be ts 
Many domellic revolutions happened in Nuſſia duriag abe 
of this prince; but none was morememarkable.than-the A 
exile of prince Menzikoff, the favourite general in the II 
oo eſteemed the richeſt ſubject in Europe. Peter ici ut 
in 17 %... 4 > OG, £1 op A ERS 
- Notwithſtanding the deſpotiſm of Peter and hi wile, the 
| ſenate and nobility, upon the death af Reter i ventured 
ſide the order of ſucceſſion which they had ea 
iſſue of Peter was now extinguiſhed ; and the d e e 
to his eldeſt daughter, was, by the; deſtitatien e ane ate: 
entitled to the crown: but the Ruſfaus, for perineal rea 
their throne with Anne, ducheſsof1-Courland; Nen e 
— Iwan, Feter's brother; though her-eldeſtiſiſier, A auchcls 
IJenburgh, was alive, Her reign was ptofſperounang ee 
though ſhe accepted of the crown under limitations bat ug 
tive of her.-ancettors, and puniſhed ther airy 
who: had. impoſed upon ber the | limitations-that heya 
might govern. / She raiſed her favourite, /Hirdn,/ i We 
Courland, and was obliged to give way to many ſevere eie 
on his account. Upon ber death, in 14940; John, 
niece, the princeſs of Mecklenburg, by Anthony Ulricy6s 
 Wolſenbuttel, was, by cher will, entilechtg eat ſucceſſin; U 
ö no more than two years old, Biron was appefnted e dea 
tar of the empire during bis nonage. . This detbuanen en 
able to the princeſs of Mecklenburgh and her huſband; and 
lar among the Ruſſiank. Count Munich was employed dy 
cefs of Mecklenburgd to arreſt Biron z Who was fried ande 
to die, but was ſent7in exile to Siberia. 
©  »» The adminiſtration of the princeſs Anne df Meere 
huſband; was, upon many accounts but 7 
German connections, diſagreeable not only »t0 the — 
other powers of Europe ; and thitaqding'® #077 


C3 3 


'Y 


10 . | | 
2-.V46 78, kv.a49 
pln wth 1he\8wedes; tht pridcefs Eliſabeth, daughter, 
to Peter the Great, formed ſueh a parti hat. in one 
was declated and proclaimed empreis af the Ruſſias 
. 
en & athow,cod of Ss iv, cr 
s teign may, ba be ſaid to have been more Faq we ary 
any of ber predeceſſors, : her father excepted. , She aboliſhed, 
bet el hinted, capital punifhments ; and introduced ia - 
ail and. military proceedings 4 moderation tilt e #ime un- 
n dalla: but at the Fame time ſhe. puniſhedthe%ounts Mu- 
A Oderman, who had the chief management of AHfairs during 
\admigiſtrations; with exiles,  She4made peace with Sweden, s 
4 as we have already ſeenyithe ſucceſſion tothatorawn, as well 
r own dominions, upon the moſt equitable foundation. Ha- 
poly fmiſed a wars which had been ſtipred up agaioſt ber, 
jen, ſhe replaced the natural order of ſueceſſion in her own 
by declaring che duke of Holſtein Camorp, who was-deſcend- | 
ber eldeſt ſiſter, to be her heir - Sde gaye him the title of 
duke of Ruſßa: and ſgon aſter her acceſſion to the throng, 
led him to her court; where. de renounced >: = Wt-4 "agen 
of Sweden, which undoubtedly belonged to him, em- 
ite Greek religion, and married a,princeſs of Auhalt-Zerbit, 
1 he had a ſon, whe is now heir ti the Ruſſiau empire. 
prince: have had a; more uninterrupted carcer of glory than 
th, She was completely viforious. over the Swedes. + Her 
* was courted by Great Britain, at the expence — oh 
but many political, and ſome, as is ſaid, private perſong, de · 
u her to take. part with —— «a urn co thy Ont | 
Praia in 1756. Her arms alone gave a.turn,to f 
vu, Which was in disfavour of Pr notwi 
b's amazing abilities both in the feld and cabinet. _ 
were ſuch, as portended the entire deſtruction of the Pruſban 
iich was ſaved: a by her. critical deaths gy: 10 
ith wa ſaeceeded by Peter 3 prince of Ruka and 
— Gottorp : a prince, whole. conduct has been vari · 
elated. He mannted . the, throne poſſeſſed of an enthuſi- 
Imiration of his Pruſſian majeſty's virtues to whom he gave 
ad whoſe principles and practices he ſeems to have adopted 
rebate of his future reign.” He have ſurmounted 
of thoſe peculiarities, unpopular as they then were in Ruſ- 
t it is ſaid he aimed at reformagions. i in his dominions, which 
7 the Great durſt not attempt; and that he even ventured 
the beards of his cler is memory has been likewiſe 
lol certain domeſtic in6delitiog which are too; provoking: for 
« princeſs. to bear. Whatever there may be in thoſe ſaggel- 
tis certain that an univerſal conſpiracy was formed againſt 
chat he ſcarcely knew an interval between the loſs of his 
F his life, of which. he was deprived while under an ig- 
= confinement. hat his condutt with regardito-Pruflta, 
bite ſale cauſe of his depoſition, ſeems pretty evident from 
"5 of his ſucceſſor, who Was his on wife, and now 2 7 
| 88 wm 1 ÞY 


FTF 1 


8 


T4344; 


= 


5.6 £ 


uu - „ . 21." 8 
mare tr Mhbj | 
inet hoſband's Repi,- and! — 

out. u meſt re mar kabte domeſtie eee 
to, is che. denth bf prince Jun Io 10 e 
and, while he wus in his cradle, emperor- of R 
| tot bie e in an ill-cohcercel : 00 nſpiracy, ice 
by ſome private officers o vuiſe Him 
AS theter 


umbtage which hes — gavs 


1 — — in Puhend, proved 
Aud cen ye OR — 


ie bong — _ Poland a — 


uvailed omit 2. — 
2 to the a of nations, the Rüſa min — 
_ Aga int Ruſſia, and marctied+ 30% 
Polaris and Ruſſia. But 5 W 
theſe —— ghty empites now combat 5 — 
Tue Tabs Are he lotiges chat hardy re 
banters varried terror und οτ / wherever ey min 
Ph lea to che gates of 'Viewnay Ne e 
rm eHtrate, a "hixyriant folk, an 
il to erate — frame; c 
| Autions; in 188 commeree⸗ and in 
bem, defirous to add the other province the dhe 
em de rudy too ul, were ſoon pripated 
3 have been victorious by ſea and H na_ 
deur has received a ſhoek, *whiety fenis tees 
if not che total diſſolutiom of their empiren 
' Hoy far the riſing greatneſs of the Ruſſians 3 
Vich the commercial intereſt of England, an@_ 
eſtabliſhed ut the erpence of {© much blood and tf 
Wes which we ball Teave'ts the —— frohe 


. r 005 on tht, of e nn 


$1.10 de etc „ 1 is? Wache 1 100 alt IST 46 
” va ” Ae +, = 
«WO n A br" 7 ac a %\ 1 e 
he — Emo -l es q 2 = a 
* 0 a, 3 0 * oa 
ry: e a de en _ 
8 Ar re 5 _ 
ART of oncign.Seandinaria . 
ann a vl 
. n NN .. . wy; 25 * | 
N Nele 9 


4 Catherine Il. empreſs of * nuts, Ah 

" 215 mat ried 1745, to the duke of Holſtein Getto and 42 

was rn, hg n.the depoſition and deuh ot Ae Ons 1 763% 

| Paul Petrowitz, stet duke of of "Ruff | 
Gini in 1754 p 


—_— 


l 


Bbunted on che Merch by. Norwegian L oh 
by-the Baitic-fea, which divides it from 
Bat by Numa; and, mM Deadand * =— 
ofrine hills, which divides Sweden ftod 


"IS , 
- 


* 4 254 * 2 - : 


— 7 the lacbudes of — — 
9 longitudes 
degrees Eaſt; about g miles. 
ZS 
nend. " 7+ {+} FD Td | 


North about n 240 miles, and about fc 

— — 

of Bothnia, extending North =dout 300 wiles, ad 

boa, makes 24,000' miles. 

% of Finland. extending Baſt about 216: miles, nad. 
alles Woad; makes 125600 ſquare. miles ; fo — 
thouſand ſquare miles are to be deducted out of | 

Fan, betides what 2 — by dee, comquercd 


Se tet fv en yr — — 
Roper 3. Lapland 4 nd g. che Iſles ; & Li- 


Rent e — 
Eee 


7 elmſtadt 14 
E [{ Stoc] Stockholn' 
" TOM 1 
ikoppin 
* 8 p 
rebro' 
(Celts © 
Ao * 
Hied mor 
| Wy... 
lernoſand 
4 eſlundt f 


= 
err 


in Sweden 
" chief ares , M. Meliar lakes in whit SL 


wee, din wan ee * . Jends, 


N There-are fow me e bas 4 itn 
rents, which deicend precipitately: from their mountains 
_ rivers are, 1. Torne, which riſes in Norwegian Laplind, 4 
ning from North to 8outh, falls into the bottom of the Bock 
|, There are a great many iran un copperrmines/nearthe by 
and abundance of mills on the'{treamy and Hörger für wor 

metal heir faked and who live on 8 N 


bread; 2. N % Lula} 4. Picking nd.s 
fall into the ſame bay of Bothnia ; 6. the | river-Dalecarlu 
' 45 2 and, running from Weſt to al, f 
* 2 between the provinces of Upland and ( 
7. 2 in Finland, runs ſrom North to South 
| the lake of Jende, = and falls into the gulph of Fand 


4 Seal] Their ſeas are the Baltic, and the gulphs of! 
8 Finland, which are arms of the , the Weld 
de. the Cate ſea and the” Sond, u nei aden 
» . - over, which divides Sweden from; Denmark.” 
Theſe ſeas have no tides, and are frozen up uſually 
lin the year; nor are they alt as the ocean, acer mong 
3: becauſe = current et always vt pf the Bal ys 


Climmts and dee | -Surhiver in ; this country, 
Soil and. Produttions, ' Widnes, ang vegetation is © 
things Southerp climanyl for ths fun js here fo hot, a. 
to ſet foreſls on fire. Stoves and warm fors mitigate en 
_ ba exon. which is ſo intenſe, that the noſes and extremities 
habitants are ſometimes mortified ; and in ſuch" eaſes, the 
. tans been found out, is robblig the affected part 
Swedes, ſince the days of Charles XII. have been 1 
Pains to correct the native barrenneſs of their country, » 
”,, Crolleges of agriculture; ang in ſome places with * 
bol is neh dhe fame with tharoF Wenne an 
way, generally very bach but in ne ae r 
9 till of late years, had not iger! Rong 
Ady the one, nor improve'the/orhier. The panty nen 1 
2 of France and ngland'; and ſome late account 
almoſt as much grain as maintains 3 
E N wheat, 546.] barley, oats, 2 „ and be 
We 5 n n . 


| . 
23 7 


4 


„ 


beries, albert _ 59 
The common people know, as yet, little of the culti- 
of irtcots, peaches, neQarins, pine-apples, and the like 
94 fruits; but melons are brought to great perfection in 


% Metals] Sweden produces chryſtals, amethyſts, to- 
rphyry, lapis-lazult, agate, cornelian, marble,” and other 
The chief wealth of Sweden, however, ariſes from her mines 
copper; lead, and iron. The laſt mentioned metal em- 
fewer than 450 forges, hammering-mills, and ſmelting- 
A hid of a gold mine has likewiſe been diſcovered in 
ia  inconfiderable, that from the year 1741 to 1747, it 
gouly 2,398 gold ducats, each valued at 98. 4 d. ſterling. 
of one filver mine is 100 fathoms below the furface 
wth; the roof is ſupported by prodigious oaken beams; and 
ace the miners deſcend about: 40 fathoms to the loweſt vein. 
he is faid to produce 20,000 crowns a year. The product of 
r mines is uncertain ; but the whole is loaded with vaſt 
reduſtions to the government, which has no other reſour- 
* exigencies of ſtate. Thoſe ſubterraneous manſions are 
y ſpacious, and at the fame time commodious for their 
bats, ſo that they ſeem to form a hidden world. The water- 
v Sweden afford excellent conveniency for turning mille 
; and for ſome years, the exports of iron from Sweden 
u 300, 00 I ſterling, Dr Buſching thinks that they con- 
two-thirds of the national revenue. It muſty however, be 
that the extortions of the Swediſh government, and ſome 
er, have greatly diminiſhed: this manufacture in Sweden; 
lie Swedes very ſoon muſt apply themſelves to other branches 
ud improvements, eſpecially in agriculture. | 


MI] Their horſes and neat cattle are but ſmall, but their 
h hardy, that they will bear the longeſt journies, and 
iat account, eſteemed more than the largeſt German horſes: 
lef their ſheep is coarſe, and only fit for the cleathing of 
n people. Their wild beaſts are bears, wolves, elks, deer, 
Wes, and ſquirrels, of which the three laſt turn white in 
u they do in Ruſſia, They have plenty of tame and wild 
lhe reder is a fowl as big as a turkey, and the fleſh much 
b; the orras is as big as a hen; and there is a bird called 
* much like a partridge, and another beautiful bird of 
Ef a fiedfare, the feathers tipped with ſcarlet ; there are 
n the Northern, countries abounding with birds of prey, 
Sits, hawks, Cc. which deſtroy the breed. There are 
Wd in their ſeas, and freſh waters, as we have, many af 
wn {il up, and theſe ſerve for part of their Winter proviſion. 


"re, Trade, Commerce, and chief Towns.] The Swediſh 
* by agriculture, mining, grazing, hunting, and 
materials for traffic, are the bulky and uſeful com- 
K k | mModities 


4 — 


* 
* 


$8 8 ECT | 
modities of maſts, beams, deal-boards, other ſorts" o 1 
ſhipping ; tar, pitch, bark of trees, pot - aſh, wooden mens 
flax, hemp, peltry, furs, copper, lead, iron, * 
Even the — — of iron wWas introduced into 5 
late as the 16th century; for till that time they fold ther « 
ore to the Hanſe towns, and bought it back again man 
to utenſils, About the middle of the 19th century, by the 
| of the Dutch and Flemings, they fet up ſome manufatuy 
ſtarch, tin, woolen, filk, ſoap, leather. dreſſing, and £ 
Book-ſelling was at that time a trade unknown in Swe; 
have ſince had ſugar-baking, tobacco · plantatiens, and 
tures of ſail- cloth, cotton, tuſain, and other fut of | 
lum, brimſtone, paper · mills, and gun · powder: milla; wi 
ties of copper, braſs, ſteel, and iron, art now A 
They have alſo foundaries for cannon, forgeries for fire 
anchors, armories, wire and flatting - milla, mills alſo f. 
and for boring, and ſtamping; and of late they have! 

ſhips for ſale. | | 

Certain towns in Sweden, being 24 in number, are calle 
towns, where the merchants are allowed to import and ex 
modities in their own ſhips. Thoſe towns which have 
commerce, though lying near the ſea, are called land-t 
third kind are termed mine-towngs, as belonging to mine 
The Swedes, about the year 1952, had y increaſed 
ports, and diminiſhed their imports, part of which r 
are ſent off in Swediſh ſhips : the Swedes having now a kin 
gation- act, like that of the Engliſh. Thoſe promiſing vl 

were, however, blaſted, by the madneſs and jealouſies of f 
diſh government; and the people ſo oppreſſed with taxes, 

important revolution was daily expected in that kingdom. 
 _ Stockholm is a ſtaple-town, and the capital of the 
Rands about 790 miles North Eaſt from London, upon 
ous iſlands, in the lake Meler, and is built upon piles. 
though commodious, and covered with copper, has neithe 
nor beauty; but accommodates the royal court, and the 
courts and colleges. The number of, houſe-keepers who 
are 60,c00. Stockholm carries on the chief trade of the 
and is furniſhed with all the exterior marks of magnitee 
erections for manufactures and commerce (particularly4 
bank, the capital of which is 466,666 1. 13 5, 4 d. tering] 
common to other great European cities. The harbours 
convenient, and large enough to hold 1000 fail of tips 
niſhed with a quey, an Englith mile in length, to which 
may lye with their broad - ſides. But there are numero 
the lake between Stockholm and the ſea, and theſe make 
ſo zigzag, that ſeveral winds are neceflary to carry f 
out; and which is much the worſe for their having 80 tice 


would greatly aſſiſt the navigation. - i 


Royal Stils.] The King's tile is, King of the Swede 
Vandals, Great Prince of Finland, Duke of Schonen, Pane 


fx 


; g' ww Et D. EB N TRE Mt 
1 The king of Sweden bears quarterly. In the firſt and 
art; three crOV-N5, Or, two in chief, and one in baſe for 
[a the ſecond and third, barry argent and azure, a lion, 
ned gules, for Finland. For the creſt, a crown- royal, 
uh eight flowers, and cloſed by as many demicircles, ter- 
s monde, Or. The ſupporters, two lions, Or, crowned 
me, The motto, Dominus protector mas. , 


n Marine Strengtb.] No country in the world has pro- 
qreater heroes, or braver troops than the Swedesz and yet 
Smt be faid to maintain à ſtanding army, as their forces 
dx regulated militia. The cavalry is cloathed, armed, and 
ec by a rate raiſed apon the ility and gentry, accord- 
weir ellates; and the infantry by the peaſants. '- Each pro- 
pebliged to find its proportion of ſoldiers, according to the 
of farms it contains ; every farm of 69 or 70 l. per 
b charged with a foot ſoldier, furniſhing him with diet, 
+ 0d ordinary cloaths, and about 20. a year in money; or 
Wale wooden houſe is built him by the farmer, who allows 
nd palturage for a cow, and plows and ſows land enough 
th him with bread. When embodied, they are ſubject to mi - 
be, but otherwiſe to the civil law of the country. It may 
ie literally be ſaid, that every Swediſh ſoldier has a property 
wantry he defends. This national army is thought to amount 
$0,000.men ; and Sweden formerly could have fitted out 
n of the line; but of late years their ſhips, together with 
xbs, are ſuffered to run to decay. 


w and ſpecies of Taxes.) The revenues of the republie are 
kl amount to about one million ſterling per annum, ari- 
b the crown lands and cuſtoms; the ſilver and copper mines; 
mich the crown deprived the clergy of at the reformation 
ter fines ; ſtamped paper, and oc. duties payable on pro - 

pu law. The poll-tax, levied only oh the peaſants, is twelve - 
| head for all above ſixteen and under ſixty years of age. 
nell oppreſſion exerciſed in the reign of Charles XII. was' 
Fling the people to bring in their ſilver and copper money, 
Auge it ſor copper pieces of little intrinſic value; a piece 
2 halfpenny was valued at half a crown. The people 
b obliged to take government notes and debentures, though 
* vere aſſigned for the diſcharge; of them. And it is ſaid, 
Wide next reign, Baron Gortz was ſacrificed to the fury of 
e 5 the author of theſe oppreſſions. 

leres which went for dalers (or 20 pence ſterling) are ſtill 
tone ſixtieth of the value they were coined for; and, ha- 
dem the figures of Mars, Apollo, &c. they were, in deri- 
an Gortz's gods. 


"Mr, Manners, and Cuſtoms.) There is a great diverſity of 
Wong the people of Sweden; and what is peculiarly re- 
wong them, they have been known to have different cha- 
ikcrent ages. At preſent, their peaſants ſeem to have a 

1 heavy 


260 9 6 W E N 
heavy plodding race of men, ſtrong and handy bit 
other ambition than that of ſubſiſting therſelves and they 
as well as they can; they are honed; ſimple, and hola 
mercantile claſſes are much of the ſame eat; but 
and perſeverance is diſcovered among them all. One cu 
idea that the modern Swedes are the deſcendents of 
der Guſtavus Adelphus and Charles XII. Carried terror 
names through the moſt diſtant countries, and ſhook the ws 
of the greateſt empires, The intrigues of "their" feriators 
them to take part in the late war againſt Pruſſia; yet they 
our was ſpiritleſs, and their courage contemptible. The 
Nobility and gentry of Sweden are naturally brave, polite, 
pitable ; they have high and warm notions of honour, and 
Jous of their national intereſts. 'The dreſs, of the comm 
is almoſt the ſame with that of Denmark: the better fort 
tuated with French modes and faſhions. The common dive 
the Swedes, are ating, running races in ledges, and 
yachts upon the ice. They are not fond of marrying their 
ters when young, as they have little to ſpare in their own 
The women go to plough, threſh out the corny row upon f 
ſerve the bricklayers, carry burthens, and do all the comm: 
geries in h * ; | 1 


Antiquities and Curigſitiet.] Among their curioſities may 
ed the mines of ſilver, copper, and iron, valtly deep-and 
and have been wrought for many ages. Copper is {o plenti 
that they cover their great churches and palaces with it 
Among their antiquities, are many funeral inferfptis 
cut on rocks, or rough hewn ſtone, in the ancient Gothic 
and Runic character. They have alſo, in manulſcript,”a't 
of the evangeliſts into the Gothic lan age, 1300 years 
by a biſhop of the Goths in Thrace, of which this is dhe of 
ſcript copy. | 

Among the curioſities may be juſtly reckoned the caverns 
ſilver mines, which produce about '20,000 crowns yearly 
the remarkable iron mine of Tabergy in Smalandiaz wt 
mountainous, rugged country, is a level tract of yery fines 
of which riſes, as it it had been dropped there, à mounten 
three Engliſh miles in circuit, and about 400 feet high ; tn 
tain is moſtly compoſed of iron ore, which is got outby bl 
the parts of the hill as it is wrought inte ; and, although i. 
worked about 200 years, the hill appears to be ſcarcely di 
what is moſt remarkable is, that ſuch a mountain ſhould al 
the ſand, in which is no ore; and that, in the interior 
bones of ſtags and other animals are frequently found but 
ſand of the mountain. F . 
The Swediſh Laplanders, the moſt ignorant bar you's 
of the world, are charged with being conjurors, and 2 1 
done ſuch feats by the magic art, as do not come at 4 
racles ; that they will give the ſailors ſuch winds as they wa 
ry part of their voyage; that they can inflict and _ 
any diſtance; and inſure people ſuccels in their ugderta 


8 W Þ D E * | 26s , 

| miſerable wretches as uſed to be charged 
rt nn nas commando anc ae. nee, 
te; and, indeed, none but very credulo yer. quan 


i credit to ſuch fables at this day, though the world 
— been dewitched in believing chem formerly. | 


1) The language of the Swedes is a dialed of the Teuto- 
cient Dutch. Their Pater-noker is of the following tenor, 
ws, Jun off 5 himumelen ; belgate. word titt namyn i lim 
+; hi tis wilie ſa pa jordenne ſom i bimmelen ; war dagligs brod 
"TL orlat ofz warg ud fom ot wi. forlaton them 
Ke aro ; och inledb o/s ded ſrefele atten ſri ufz i fra an- 
ir titt och machten och harligbeten i ewigheet. Amen. 


is] The Swedes were Ar ninth century, when 
bed, a native of Britain, planted Chriſtianity among them. 
mation commenced here at the beginning of the 16th cen · 
athe reign of Guſtavus Erickſon, who promoted it as well 
lar as religious vie ws. The clergy were his enemies, and 
2 rich ; whereupon he ſeized their lands, and united taem 
gown, leaving the clergy but a ſlender maintainance. * 
niſm is the only religion profeſſed here ; they tolerate no 
The Archbiſhop of Upſal is primate of Sweden, and the on- 
bop among the Lutherans, having ſeen ſuffragans under 
The Archbiſhop's revenues do not amount to more than 1 
an; and the biſhop's revenues are proportionably 
* ten ſuperintendants, with much the ſame power 
| y of their clergy are mean people, the ſons of pea- 
A mechanics; and have but a third of the tythes of the pa · 
ud ſmall portion of glebe, the reſt having been ſeized by 
1; however, their clergy in general are in great eſteem a- 
& people, on account of their good lives; many of them are 
lad ingenious men. s . 
thef differences between the Lutherans and Calviniſts are, 
atherans have biſhops and ſuperintendants for the govern- 
be church; whereas the Calviniſt clergy are all equal, and 
tier churches by a preſbytery, from whence they are called 
has with us. Another thing they differ in is the corporal 
Fu the ſacrament of the Lord's ſupper. The Lutherans 
kubllantiation, viz, that, in taking the elements, the body 
m of Chriſt are conſubſtantiated and taken with them, not 
Wtated into the body and blood of our Saviour; whereas 
dul eſteem this ſacrament only a commemoration of our 
Kath, Laſtly, the Lutherans look upon a man as a free 
Wt he can chooſe good or evil; whereas the Calyiniſts 
that 42 action of a man's life is decreed, and that he 
ice. 


Wi and Biſhoprics.] The only Archbiſbopric in Sweden, 

an country, as has been obſerved already, is that 

* diſnoprics are thoſe of Gottenburg, Lunden, Linkop- 
\ Wexio, Stregnes, and Scaray : ” 

Univerſities] 


which are not much frequented by people of diſtindion, 


Charles XII. who was killed in 1718, became deſpotie 
ſucceeded by his ſiſter, Ulrica; wo conſented to the abe 
in return, aſſociated her huſband, the Landgrave of 


too low; for the king of Sweden cou 
the education of his own children. 
became of itſelf a ſtudy, occaſioned by the checks which 


| ſhed, on the 19th of Auguſt 194942. The king's prerogative 


. narchy, of which, we ſhall give the following proofs tron 


ry, and myſelf, without injury to one ſingle fellow 


> 


| Univerfitien] Their- univerſities are, Upſel, Lunden, 


Since the late introduction of arts and ſcientes into g 
the eſtabliſhment of a royal academy at Stockholm, dhe dun 
produced many literary pieces of conſiderable merit; and: 
to be a ſpirit of encouragement exerted by their gentry 
plication is made to them for undertakings really uſeful; 7 
tenance ſhewn to Haſelquiſt, to enable im to/ travel ny 
to Profeſſor Kalm, to travel about North America, have 
liſhed z wherein are ſhewn the advantages which might the g 
to their country. The voyage of Olbec to China is full of 
tions and reflections worthy a phi N 


_ Government.) The Swedes, like the Danes, ware Yrigin; 
but after various revolutions, which will be hereafter ms 


deſpotiſm, and reſtored the ſtates to their former liberties; x 


with her in the t. A new model of the con 
then drawn up, by which royal T 
ſearcely be called 


name, being limited in every exereiſe of government, an 


Their government, by which I mean their political 


: 


ULN 
4 


had upon another, It is ſufficient to ſay, that though ue 
be more plauſible, yet nothing is leſs practicable than the vi 
of their diſtributive powers. This was ſeen in the late 
ſtate of Sweden, when its whole ſyſtem of government was? 
of annihilation ; which muſt have been the conſequence, if 
terial alteration had not been introduced, for the king ut 
equally complained of the ſenate, with whom almolt allt 
tive power was lodged, 

This great event, which ſeems to have been admirably 
by the king and ſome leading men, was accompliſhed withe 


ly enlarged, but not fo as to ſet him above the laws; nt 
new form of government bear any reſemblance to an aro 


papers lately publiſhed, relating to the change ofthe Swed 
cution : c. $4 | 
4% All has happily ſucceeded, and T have ſaved my pa 


are greatly miſtaken if you believe here has been any ove 
liberty and law, I have promiſed to govern a ireepe 
vow is more ſacred as it was voluntary; and what bas 
ſhall never lead me from a purpoſe, which was not found 
on neceſſity, but alſo on convidtion 1” Speech of the King # 

« Every form of government has its icpreiſion of bun 
and muſt be imperfe&, uncertain, and changeable; and 
its beginning, its maturity, and its fall. But as 


/ 


„who, on ſuch a change, preſerve that liberty, 
Een ſociety ! Speech of the order of the Clergy... 
+ that upon your maje wel) wy — the order 
nts, with the deepeſt ſu on, have leave to approach 
uu, i 
0+; throne, at the cloſing of this long, and in its event 
ne aſembly of the ſtates, they remind themſelves, with 
Jrely and loyal reverence, that the kingdom was at the very 
«fall; and how it has been faved by your majeſty's tender 
| zealous protection ; how the balance, till now wanted, in 
ation of the government, has been reſtored; and how the 
veedih liberty and independency have been again revived. 
meat perfecting the earneſt wiſhes of the Swediſh people, 
raiſes the admiration of the whole world.” - Speech of the 
th P ' {mY . | 
Eb who aſſembled formerly once iu three years, 
ne tent ion of deputies from the four or- 
jlity and gentry, » burghers, and peaſants. Each 
yin its own houſe, and has its own ſpeaker; and each chu- 
xt commitee for the diſpatch of buſineſs. a 
y/the ſtates are not ſitting, the affairs of the public are ma · 
the king and ſenate, The members of the ſenate were for- 
pointed by the ſtates, and were no other than a committee 
lates. They are now ſelected and choſen by the king 
ag the Swediſh nobility and gentry, and in ordinary are 
, including the high officers of ſtate. Thus upon the 
tte new government of Sweden bears a near reſemblance to 
Great Britain; the king and ſenate to the Britiſh privy coun» 
diet or aſſembly of the ſtates, to the Britiſh parliament.  - 


I Sweden.) The Goths, the ancient inhabitants of this 
pined by the Normans, Danes, Saxons, Vandals, Cc. 
the reputation of ſubduing the Roman empire, and all the 
{rations of Europe. I ſhall not here follow the wild ro- 
dbrediſh hiſtorians through the early ages. It is ſufficient 
Mt dweden has as good a claim to be an ancient monarchy, 
it tnow of, Nor thall I diſpute her being the paramount 
Kandinavia (Sweden, Denmark, and Norway,) and that 
wed her name from one of her princes. The introduction 
Wir, however, by Anſgarius, biſhop of Bremen, in 829, 
preſent the firſt certain period of the Swediſh hiſtory. 
Wee) of Sweden, and indeed of all the Northern nations, 
iz the firſt ages of Chriſtianity, is confuſed and unintereſt - 
Ren doubtful 3 but ſufficiently replate with murders, maſ- 
Amages. That of Sweden is void of confiſtency, till a- 
idle of the fourteenth century, when it aſſumes an ap- 
Pare regular and conſiſtent z and affords wherewith to re- 
dr attention of thoſe who chooſe to make it an object of 
% At this time, however, the government of the Swedes 
being clearly aſcertained, or uniformly adminiſtered. 
n clectiye, though in this eleQion the rights of blood 
| were 


of Denmark, and widow of uguin, 


deſigns. She has been called the Semiramis of the N 


. ff OE IOC 


way, and Sweden. She proj the union of Calmar, 


that country, and who had already fignalized his _— 


. ‚— Yue. G4 
» 


their prelates 


of the lictle- xi 


nal ſubjection of its own princes, ſometimes united 0 
of Denmark, and in either caſe equally | 
Towards the year 1374. 


of her ſex, added a penetration and e 

dered her capable of conducting the | and molt ce 
like Semiramis, ſhe found means to reduce by arms orb 
an immenſe extent of territory: and became queen of Yer 


in the North, by which theie kingdoms were for ae 
main under one ſovereign, elected by each kingdom in in 
who ſhould divide his reſidence between them All. Thrill 
laſt king of Denmark, who, by virtue of this r 
king of Sweden, had an ambition to become ablowte 

rous policy by which he attempted to alfeRionate this def 
barbarous, proved the deſtruction ef himſelf, and ator 
portunity for changing the face of affairs in Sweden. 

eſtabliſh his authority in that kingdom, he laid a plot tor 
the principal nobility. This horrid deſign was tut 
execution, November 8, 1510, Of all thoſe who could 
deſpotic purpoſes of Chriſtian, no one remained in 
Guſtavus Vaſa, a young prince, deſcended of the ance 


king of Deamark. An immenſe price was laid on 
Daniſh ſoldiers. were ſent in purſuit of him; but by his de 
addreſs, he eluded all their attempts, and-eſcaped under 
of a peaſant, to the mountains of Dalicarlia. This _ 
to relate his dangers and fatigues, how to prevent Ws\ 


* | 
"LY £2 ©h % 
u the braſs· mines, how he was betrayed by thoſe in whom 

1 his confidence, and in fine, ſurmounting a thouſand ob- 

the ſavage but warlike inhabitants of Dalicarlia, to 

I cauſe, to oppoſe, and to conquer his tyrannical op» — 4 
ueden, by his means, again acquired independence, The a 
ability were moſtly deſtroyed. Guſtayus was at the head J 
ous army, who admired his valour, and were attached 

. He was created therefore, firſt adminiſtrator, and 

bh king of Sweden, by the univerſal conſent, and with the 

The whole nation His circumſtances were much more fa« 

than thoſe of any former prince, who had poſſeſſed this 

The maſſacre of the nobles, had rid him of thoſe proud 

menies who bad ſo long been the bane of all regular go- 

n Sweden, The clergy, indeed were no leſs powerful 

eros; but the opinions of Luther, which begun at this 

in the North, the force with which they were ſup - 

and the credit which they had acquired 8 the Swedes, 

1 opportunity of changing the religious ſyſtem of that 

and the exerciſe of the Roman Catholic religion was pro- 

ner the ſeverelt penalties, (which have never yet been re · 

the year 1544. Inſtead of a Gothic ariſtocracy, the moſt 

of all governments, and when impoiſoned by religious ty- | 

il governments the moſt wretched, Sweden in this man- 

we a regular monarchy, The happy effects of this change 

tiible. Arts and manufaQures were eitabliſhed and im- 

migation and commerce began to flouriſh ; letters and 

re introduced; and a kingdom, known only by name to 

Europe, began to be known by its arms, and to have a 

ht in all public treaties or deliberations; FI GL 

aſter a glorious reign, died in 13559 while his eldeſt 

ws preparing to embark for England, to marry queen 


Eric, who ſucceeded his father, Guſtavus Vaſa; the titles 
Id baron were introduced into Sweden, and made heredi- 
i miſerable and cauſeleſs jealouſy of his brothers, forced 
we up arms, and the ſenate ſiding with them, he was de- 
1566, His brother John ſucceeded him, and entered into 
w with Ruſſia, John attempted, by the advice of his 
Reltabliſh the Catholic religion in Sweden; but though 
bag efforts for that purpoſe, and even reconciled him - 
"pe, he was oppoſed by bis brother Charles, and the 
md ineffectual. John's ſon, Sigiſmund, was, however, 
ddt Poland in 1587, upon which he endeavoured again 
Me Roman-Catholic religion in his dominions, but he died 


7 nun | | 
h brother to king John, was choſen adminiſtrator of Swe- 
King a trbknuous Proteſtant, his nephew, Sigiſmund, en+ 
o drive him from the adminiſtratorſhip, bur without ef- 
Wal, he and his family were excluded from the ſucceſſion 
„ which was conferred upon Charles. The reign of 
Mgh the practices of digiſmund, who was himſelf a 
* and at the head of a great party both in Sweden 
L 1 \ and 


"_ 


1 1 266 | 8 W E D 
and Ruffia, was turbulent z which gave 


. 
= 


dolphus. 
, Upon the death of his f*ther, which | happened in 4617; 
| clared of age by the ſtates, though then oaly in his Got 
 Guaitavus, toon aſter his accefſion, found himſelf, tha 
and intrigues of the Poles, Kuſſtaus, and Daves, 
; 


furmounted. narrowly mifſed being maſter c Kul, 
Ruſſians were tenacious of their independency, tha 
was baffled. In i619, he made a peace; under the we 
James I. of England, by which he reco Lian 
2 towns in the preteQure of Novogorod. wih u fam of 
| The ideas of Guſtavus n now to extend. He had t 
deal of aflitary ſervice, he was aflifted by the chunt 
Gardie, one of the beſt generals and wiſelt fateſmen of 
His troops, by war, had become the bel difei 
moſt warlike in Europe; and he carried "his 
| hiſtorians are willing to acknowledge. The pri 


a 
and fapported his ancient im enemy Sigi 
tavus defeated; and in 1629, he formed the bee of I 
which he was unſucceſsful z but the att ch was 
enly by the ſudden rife of the Viſtula, 
character, that the Proteſtant cauſe 
confederacy for reducing the houſe of Avltria. His life, 
tim, was a continued chain of the rapid and w 
cefſes : even the mention of each would exceed” our hour 
fafficient to ſay, that after taking Riga, and over-runmag 
he entered Poland, where he was victorious; and from? 
1630, he landed in Pomerania, drove the Germans ou & 
burgh, defeated the famous Count Tilly, the Aultran ge 
was till then ht invincible z and over-ran ng 
the defeat and dea 
ral of equal i 
vus, who was killed upon 
tle ; which had he ſurvived, would probably have put 2 
the Aulitrian greatneſs. 
The amazing abilities of Guſtavns Adolphus, both int 
and the field, never appeared fo fully as after ins crea 
behind him, a ſet of generals, traiaed by himielt, who 4 
the giory of the 5wediſh army with moſt aſtonilking* * 
ceſs. The names of Duke Bernard, — © 
and others, and their prodigious actions in wats 
rotten in the annals ot Europe. It is uncertain what 
| tavus would have had his life been 
i! ceiſes continued there are the ſtrongeſt reaſons 108 
| he had in his eye ſomewhat more than the relief ot te 
and the rettoration of the Palatine family, His ch 
ſtiera, was as confummate a politician as he was m 
ring the minority of his daughter Chriſtina, be 68 


— 


i! 
, 
| 
: 
1. 
; 
N 
| 
| 


s$ wv ED EN 1 
A boch ſucceſs, that ſhe in a manner dictated the peace 

which threw the affairs of Europe into a new ſyſtem. 
Nes bat fix years of age when her father was killed,” She 
\ pable education 3 but her fine genius took an uncommon, 
<<mantic turn. She invited to her court Deſcartes, Sal- 
Al ther learned wen z to whom the was not, however, 
Geral. She exprefſed a value for Grotius ; and ſhe was 
4 judge of the polite arts : but illiberal, and indelicate in 
{+ of ber private favourites, She at the ſame time diſchar- 
Pr 
njed by France, the continued to ſupport the honour of 
being. reſolved not to „ ſhe refigned her crown 
Charles Guſtavus, ſon to duke of Deux-Ponts, 


s had great ſucceſs againſt the Poles : he drove their kiogs 
air, into Sileſia ; and received from them an oath of 
which, with their uſual inconſtancy, they broke. His 
zzon the ice againit Denmark, has been already mention- 
he died of a fever in 1660. His fon and ſucceſſor, Charles 
n fire years of age at his father's death 3 and this ren - 
for his guardians to conclude a with their 
by which the Swedes gave up the i s of Bornholm, 
im, in Norway, All differences were accommodated 
ume with Ruſſia and Holland z and Sweden continued 
arery reſpectable figure in the affairs of Europe. When 
ane to be of age, he received a ſubſidy from the French 
u X[V. but perceiving the liberties of Europe to be in 
i that monarch's ambition, he entered into the alliance 
dad and Holland againſt him. He afterwards joined with 
alt the houſe of Auſtria ; but being beaten in Germany 
nn, a powerful confederacy was formed agaiaſt him. 
be of Brandenburgh made himſelf maſter of the Swediſh 
i; the biſhop of Munſter over-ran Bremen and Verden, 
Des took Wiſmar, and ſeveral places in Schonen. They 
rds beaten 3 and Charles, by the treaty of St Germains, 
wee that of Nimeguen, recovered all he had loſt, except 
= in Germany, He then married Ulrica Leonora, the 
panart's filter, but made a very bade uſe of the tranqui- 
breguned ; for he enſlaved and beggared his people, that 
ader his power deſpotie, and his army formi The 
Wtheir power; aud Sweden was reduced to the condi - 
uk. He ordered the brave Patkul, who was at the 
* Livogian deputies, to loſe his head and his right hand, 
415 of his remonſtrance in favour of his countrymen, 
A kunſelf by flight; and Charl:s became fo conſiderable a 
e conferences for a general peace at Ryſwie were 
: his mediation, | 
WIL. died in 1697, and was ſucceeded by his minor | 
ule; XII. The hiſtory of no prince is better known 
#this herve. His father's will had fixed the age of his 
*puteen, but it was ſet aſide for an earlier date by the 
R of Count Piper, who became thereby his firſt miailter- 
L 1 2 Soon 


_ eoliraged by the mean opinion they had of his youth ang 


Duke of Holſtein was re eſtabliſhed in Kis'Gominions. 
and had beſieged Narva. The army of Charles did apt ere 


_ * throned Auguſtus king of Poland 1 but he fiainied-all dr | 


powers of Europe; and among others; by the Duke of 1 


that oſ an illuſtrious madman ;; for he loſt, in the battle vf 
which he fonght in his march ta dethrone tie Cn m. 


be was forced to take refuge among the Turks at Bender 


cad their liberties; and given the ſubſtanee of the capitulat 


of government. Their firſt care was to make u pee 


99 D 


Soon after his acceſnon, theſkings of Denmark and\Piley 
Czar of Muſcovy, formed a powerful confederhey 29aink 


He made head. againſt them all; and befiegiriy Copetihians, 
tated the peace of Pravendahl to his Daniſh-majelty, 


Peter was at this time ravaging Ingriaz- at the litad of $6 
men; but ſuch was his impatience, that he advanced at the 
8,000, entirely routed the main body of the Rullians, ald 
Such were his ſucceſſes, and ſo numerous his prifont 
the Ruſſians attributed his actions to riecromaney, - Ch 
thence marched into Saxony, where his watlike atchivveats 
led, if they did not excel, thoſe | of, Guſtavus Adolphus, 


putting the brave Count Pateul to a death equally painful 
minjous, He raiſed Staniſlaus to the crown of Poland; 
name carried with it ſuch terror, that he was courted 


in the name of Queen Anne, amidſt the tull careee of le 
againſt France. His ſtubbornneſs and implacable Gilpoſuit 
ever, was fuch, that he cannot be conſidered ws better ff 


he had gained by his victories. His brave army was ti 


tions there, in attempting to defend himſelf with 308 Set 
Turks, prove him to have been worſe thai frat 

rks found it, however, convenient for their affairs, to f 
liberty. But his misfortunes did not cute his HN mas 
after his return to his dominions, he profecuted i reveig 
Denmark, till he was killed by a cannon-ſhoty utthe fegt 
ricſhal, in Norway, belonging to the Danes, in %, ws 
no more than thirty ſix years of age. p 
Charles XII. was ſacceeded, as I have alreddy mention 
ſiſter, the princeſs Ulrica Eleonora, wife to the hereditary 
Heſſe. We have already ſeen in wat wanter the Fele 


by the queen and her huſband, when they entered upon © 


Britain: which the late king intended to have invaded If 
then, to prevent their farther loſſes by the'pfogreſs of th 
the Daniſh, the Saxon, and other artns; made many grea 
to obtain peace from thoſe powers. The French, hove 
the year 1378, formed a dangerous party in the Unger 
the name of the Hats; which not only broke the meern 
the kingdom, but led it into a ruinous War at Rum 
Swediſh majeſties having no children, it was necellary torn 
ceſſion j eſpecially as the Duke of Holſtein was deſerndec 
queen's eldeſt filter, and was, at the ſame tine, he 
heir to the empire of Ruſſia. Four competithrs appeared 
of Holſtein Gottorp ; prince Frederic of Helſe-CalF 1 


* 


| 


33 w- ED rx. 80 


- the prince of Denmark, and the duke of Deur- ponts. 
2 Holllein would have earried-the election had he not 
the Greek religion, that he might mount the throne of 
The Crarina interpoſed, and offered to reſtore all the con- 
ke had made from d weden, excepting a ſnail diſtrict in Fin- 
+ the Swedes would receive the Duke of Holſtein's uncle, 
Frederic, biſbep of Lubec, as their hereditary prince and 
| to their erown This was agreed to, and a peace was con- 
+ Abo, under the mediation of his Britannie majeſty, This 
0% firmly adhered to by the Czarina, that his Daniſh ma-. 
weit proper to drop all the effects of his reſentment, and 
un done his ſon, The prince fuccefſor, married the prin- 
third filter to the king of Pruſſia ; and in 1751 entered 
ſion of his new dignity, which proved to him a crown 
„ Through a ſtrange. medley of affairs, and views of in- 
the French have vaſt influence in all the deliberations of the 


fe late war againſt Pruflia ; but as that war Was dilagree- 
botly to the people but alſo to the King of Sweden, the na- 
made ſo mean an appearance; and upon Ruſſia's makin 


* terms of leaving things as they ſtood at the begituminig of 
Augullus died difpirited in 1771, after'a turbulent reign 
fears, and was ſucceeded by his ſon, Guſtavus, whoſe 
ud courage bids fair to revive the glory of the Swediſh 
The reader, from what has been already premiſed, can be 
b to know the ſequel of the Swediſh hiſtory to this preſent 
being no longer ſettered in the operations of government, F 
doped that his majeſty will apply himſelf to the true intereſts 

try, and with the ready concurrence of a brave and * 
prove an invincible barrier againſt the ambitious ſehemes 0 
te North +. 


eo NS. 1. ͥ. 
uacat of Sweden is — — o 9 3 
lark piece of ſilven —— — 89 5 2 
l piece 3 — — 0 2 7 


ne copper coins (ſore as big as a ſmall tile) of ſeveral va- 
* they frequently pay foreign merchants in yn; the 
bale wheelbarrows with themy inſtead of bags, they 
4 e money, | T 


« Holſtein-Gottorp, king of Sweden, was bord in 1746; married 

1 1 of Denmark, and ſucceeded his father in 1721. His bro- 
te, 1. Charles, born in 1748. 2. Frederic Adolphus, born in 2760. 

=", born in 1753. h | 8 


ente, who of late have been little better than penſioners ta 
n, The intrigues of the ſeuators forced Adalphis to taks 


th the king of Pruſſia, the Swedes likewiſe made their peace, 


" 


* 


b , 
* , 
EY 2 : 4 
D E N HA 
1 * f * « F 4 ** * * +. 
, " 4 | ' ; 0 . 
1 8 1 — . - - 3 * OY - 2 oo 7 A 
my: * * TY © . 4 - 1 E » , 8 - a. 1 "el : / * f 1775 * 9 4 * 1 . 
9 6 
4 o * it EX * 5 


Ta * 7 % * * 5 , Þ L - 
& i 45D E N Raa 
23 188 Ts | * {4 464 * r abs / 


| 4 
12 P : +73 ">. 5 n 91 


rn en rows MF 
* 5 ow dominions of the king of Denmark confilling of 
1 tached parts, as Eaſt and Welt Greenland, Teeland 4 
iſles, Lapland, Norway, Denmark Proper, and foie n 
| ny, they will be treated of in the order here ennmnerd 
htter articles comprehending the chief power with which i 
of Denmark is inveſted! beat ny, | 


as FT GREENLAND 


1 ſituate between 76 and 80 degrees of North latitude; 
1 tween the longitudes of 10 and 30 degrees Kalb from Li 
an uninhabitable country, producing very few conveniencies 
kind, except its whale fiſhery, which is chiefly proſecuted i 
and Dutch ſhipping. _ . 
- This country was diſcovered in 1553, by Sir Hugh Wi 
an Engliſhman ; and is ſuppoſed to be a continuation of Ol 
land; it has for ſome time got the name of Spitabergen, 


* Curioſities. ] The taking of whales in the Greenland fea 
the pieces of ice which — bs increaſing for ages, is 
ateſt curioſities in Nature. om | | 

When the ſhips firſt arrive at the ice, they avoid as my 
ſible lying among the ſmall pieces, both | becauſe. few wi 
be found there, and likewiſe becauſe it is very dangerous 
are liable to be thrown againſt the ſides of the ſhip y 
the ſea, which theſe ſmall pieces do not entirely take df 
therefore work up as far to the Northward as pollible, en 
meet with a fe/d (ſo they term a piece of ice, of immenſem 
and to which no end can be perceived.) About theſe be 
is as ſmooth as glaſs, and the vaſt tracts of ice, which 
than the eye can pierce, preſent the idea of a level cout 
covered with ſnow. * Fa 

In the openings betwixt theſe fields the whales play, 
the ſhip has got up, and is made faſt to-the field by means 
Hook which they call an ice-anchor, the boats are man 
out to different diſtances, to wait for, whales, Halt 
company are ſet out in this manner, for four” hours 
which is called the brondt watch, after which they #1 
the others. ; 

As ſoon as a whale is ſeen to ſpopt, the boat which val 
neareſt, makes towards him, and the harpoonee 7 

} 


ſtrike him with a barbed dart called ihe har © 
which a line of ſeveral hundred fathoms in length. 


D 1 N N 1 Hf 
U ü the bottom of the boat. If he ſueceeds, an oar is 


in the middle of the boat, as a ſignal for the reſt to 
L affiftance. When this is perceived, the people in the 
alarmed by the cry of Fall, fall, by a perſon ſtlationed on 
purpoſe ; upon which they im y haſten out in 
place where the whale was truck. enn . 
the monſter perceives himſelf wounded, he immediately 
etimes going perpendicularly down, ſometimes running 
5 Ar firſt he ſets off with immenſe velocity, but ſoon 
ud is again obliged to come = irs the ſurface to bow, or 
wer, which he cannot live without. At the ſecond time 
wing up he ſtays much longer than at firſt, and is again 
4 with harpoons and lances z this they continue doing, = X 
x to ſpout up blood mixed with water, which is @ ſign of 
þ; and ſoon after this he turns himſelf” on his back and 


bale which is moſt valued, is of a black colour, ſometimes 
tin length. His tongue reſembles a jarge feather bed : 
thitanding his mouth is ſo large, his throat can ſcarce ad- 
1 fit. On each fide of the tongue are two hundred and 
ws of what is called whale-bone, which terminate in a kind 
hair. The reſt of the bones of his body are hard, and of 
He is very thick about the head, but grows gradually leſs 
wee to the tail. MY | yd | 
ule has no ſcales, but is covered with a ſoft black ſkin, 
of half an inch thick. Below this lies the blabber from 
oil is extracted, upwards of a foot in thicknefs, all round 
; and below this the muſcular fleſh, They do not ſpout 
ter through their noſtrils as is commonly thought, but 
a hole in the back part of their head. The noiſe they 
this occaſion reſembles an exceeding ſtrong breath, and 
ard at the diſtance of two or three miles. | | 
the Greenland-ſhips are got à little to the Northward of 
they are followed by great numbers of birds, called by the 
nacli, who ſeem to have ſome knowledge of the errand 
they are going. Theſe creatures are exceedingly vora- 
L are often taken with hooks baited with pieces of pork - 
Þ lines and thrown into the ſea. When taken, they im- 
wit a quantity of oil, Theſe birds, with many others, 
e carcaſes of dead whales; but one curious circumſtance 
the malamucks is, that they are purſued by others, who 
iy the tail, never quitting their hold till the malamuck 
Acrements, which the other catches-as a delicious morſe}, 
i vell ſatisfied. | F N 
pace it may not be improper to take notice of the miracu- 
"a Engliſhmen, that remained here all the winter, 
oncluſion of the ſeaſon for fiſhing, theſe men were ſent 
a, to kill rein- deer for the ſhip's company, and order- 
lim at Bell Sound, on the Welt coaſt of Greenland, with 
Accordingly, having killed about 15 rein- deer, they 
au their boat to the place appointed; but, to their 
OM 3 


4 D B M M & W'& 
| n ſhip was gone, and they had nefther 
| to defend them againſt the approaching, Winter, 
a night of many months ; nor had they. bread u 8. 
kid, dat the game they killed. However, with o 
the booths where the eil was made,..they buik a 
- covered it with another, to keep ont the Piercing cold the 
Inet; prayided ſewel to keep a, gonſfant fte in I wid 
du happened to find whale oil enough to ſurnilh then va 
t 1 2 the dark ſeaſon ; and thus, with the yenilon they i; 
=... fritters, or offal af the whales, aſter the oil was preſſed « 
laid vpproviſion enough to ſerve them the Winter, The froſty 
Weir meax from putreſaction; they had nopceaſign for ful 
of which preſerved them. They had a ſpring of warn 
houſe, which kept open till January, but then was. entire 
UP, and they had no other drink but melted ey af 
However, they all lived till the ſhipping returned in May 
ming, and were brought ſafe ta England, having received 
ner of hart, f 


The Dutch hearing of this, and reaping fuck watt advan 
_ the whale fſhery, ſent a colony thither, provided with al 
| of neceſſaries, but every one. of them gied of the ſcurvy þ 
ſhipping returned the following year 3 however, the Dutch 
the experiment, and ſent another colony to Greenland the 
ing year ; but theſe men alſo periſhed in the fame manner 
which time na nation has attempted tp make ſettlements the 
it is evident that theſe. two colonies were killed by their f 
ions, from the journals they left behind; and as meat williiind: 
this climate without ſalt, if a colony ſent thither ſhanld kill | 
other game enough to ſubſiſt them duting the Winter, th 
doubt but they might live there unhurt as the eight w_ begar 
but is not worth the while of any nation but the Dutch,» 
in ſome degree, monopolized the fiſhery, to make the a 
again, "5 1 _— * 
That it is not abſolutely impoſſible however to ſetile a . b 
theſe frozen regions, appears trom the ſollowing eren | 
count of four Ruſlan ſuilors, who lived fix years on 4 de bs cot 
to the Ealtward of Spitzbergen, three of whom revue: 
their native country. book 
In the year 1743, one Jeremiah Okladmkof, amerchan Qin: 
a town in the province of Jugovia, and in the governmanb4 actor 
angel, fitted out a veſſel, carrying fourteen mens the wa a Pla 
for Spitzbergen, to be employed in the whale or ſeal hide! 
eight ſucceſſive days after they had failed, che wind ww 
on the gth it changed; ſo that inſtead of geting $08 
Spitzbergen, the uſual place of randezvous:for the Nutehi | 
thoſe of other natigns, annually employed in the whales 
were driven Eaſtward of thoſe iſlands; and after” ſome» 0 
found themſelyes at a ſmall diſtance ſrom one of them, ® 
Spitzbergen; by the Ruſſians. Malay Broung that 8. Ln 
(Spitzbergen properly ſo called, being known dd them I 
of Bolſchoy Broun, that is, Great Broun,; Having af g te; 
iſland withia almoſt three werſts, gr two Englilh miles ther roy 


. 


any 


2 


* 


2. 4 &- | — us 1 


=E 


| 


terounded by ice, and they found themſelves in an ex- 
© ming ſtate a council was held: when the mate, Alexis 
— them, that he recollected to have heard, that 
te jeople of Meſen, ſome time before, having formed a re- 
of Wintering upon this iſland, had accordingly carried from 
aber proper for building a hut, and had actually erected 
formation induced the whole company to refolve on Win · 
i the hut, as they hoped, ſtill exiſted ; for they clear - 
the imminent danger they were in, and that they muſt 
periſh if they continued in the ſhip. They diſpatched 
Our of their crew in ſearch of the hut, Or any other ſuc- 
could meet with. Theſe were Alexis Himko the mate: 
Enkof, his godſon; Stephen Sharapof, and Feodor Weregin. 
hore on which they were to land was uninhabited, it was 
that they ſhould make ſome proviſion for their expedition. 
} moſt two miles to travel over looſe ridges of ice; which 
ſed by the waves, and driven againſt each other by the 
adered the way equally difficult and dangerous: 13 
ſorbade their loading themſelves too much, leſt, being 
ned, they might fink in between the pieces of ice and periſh, 
be thus maturely conſidered the nature of their undertaking, 
ded themſelves with a muſket, and powder - horn, contain - 
charges of powder, with as many balls, an ax, a ſmall 


fader, 2 bladder filled with tobacco, and every man his 
die Thus accoutred theſe four ſailors quickly arrived on 
| little ſuſpecting the misfortunes that would befal them. 


ere in ſearch of, about an Engliſh mile and a half from 


any in breadth. It contained a ſmall antichacaber, about 
*. broad, which had two doors, the one to ſhut it up from 
ar, the other to form a communication with the inner 
$ contributed greatly to keep the larget room warm, when 
la the large room was an earthen ſtove, conſtructed 
Wan manner; that is, a kind of oven without a chimney, 
mes occaſionally either for baking, for heating the room, 
mitomary among the Ruſſian peaſants, in very cold wea- 
place to ſleep upon. | | | e 

Ader mult not be ſurpriſed at my mentioning a room with - 
Wey; for the houſes inhabited by the lower claſs of peo- 


loves, the room, as may well be ſuppoſed, is filled with 
ge vent to which, the door; and three or four windows 
1 Theſe windows are each a foot in height, and about 
nde: they are cut out of the beams whereof the houſe is 
by means of a ſliding- board, they may, when occaſion 
5 de {but very cloſe. When therefore à fire is made in 
le ſmoke deſcends no lower than the windows 3 through 
Wough the door, it finds 2 vent, according to the girec- 

Mm tion 


Dp E N M AR K. an 293. 


bag with about twenty pounds of flour, a knife, a tinder- 


began with exploring the country; and ſoon diſcovered the 
lt was thirty-ſix feet in-length, eighteen feet in height, 


xe ſeldom built otherwiſe. When a fire is kindled in 


j * 


274 e -E MN "IEG 
tion of the wind; and perſons may continue in the 1 
feeling any great inconveniency from it. The reader 
_ conjecture, that the upper part of ſua a plate between 
and the ceiling, mult be as black às ebony; but from . 
don to the floor, the wood is perfectly clean, and ret 
Tal colour. ee dna 
They rejoiced greatly at having diſcovered the hat: 
however, ſuffered much from the Weather, it having . 
a conſiderable time: our adventurers, however, contri 
the night in it. Early next morning they haſtened to the 
patient to inform their comrades ot their ſucceſs; and d 
eure from their veſſel ſuch proviſions, ammunition, and 0 
ſaries, as might better enable them to Winter on the im 
I leave my readers to figure to themſelves the aftoniha 
gany of mind theſe poor people mult have felt, when, 0 
the place of their landing, they ſaw nothing but an ope 
from the ice which, but a day before, had covered the 
violent ſtorm which had ariſen during the night, had cert 
the cauſe of this diſaſtrous event. But they could not in 
the ice, which had before hemmed in the vellel, agitated! 
lence of the waves, had been driven againſt her, and f 
to pieces; or whether ſhe had been carried by the cure 
main; a circumſtanee which frequently happens in thoſe 
! ever accident had befallen the ſhip, they ſaw her no mo 
'Þþ| | no tidings Here ever afterwards received of her, it is mc 
that ſhe ſunk, and that all on board of her periſhed. 
This melancholy event depriving” the-unhappy wrete 
hope of ever being able to quit the iſland, they returned 
from whence they had come, full of horror and delpair. 
Their firſt attention was employed, as may ealily be un 
deviſing means of providing ſubſiſtence, and for repainng 
The twelve charges of powder which they had brought 
ſoon procured them as many rein-deer;z the inland, tort 
them, abounding in theſe animals. bs | 
I. have before obſerved, that the hut Which dhe Jai 
fortunate as to find, had ſuſtained ſome damage g and 
there were cracks in many places between the boards of 
c ing, which freely admitted the air. This inconvemency 
ever eaſily remedied, as they had an axy and the bean 
ſound, (tor wood in thoſe cold climates continues throv] 
of years unimpaired by worms or decay) fo it was eat 
to make the boards join again very tolerably ; beſides, md 
in great abundance all over the iſland, there was mor 
cient to ſtop up the crevices, which wooden houles wok 
liable to. Repairs of this kind coſt the unhappy men the l 
as they were Ruſſians; for all Ruſſian peaſants are'® 
good carpenters; they build their own houſes, and are 
in handling the ax. = * 72 
The intenſe cold which makes thoſe chmates abt 
ſpecies of animals, renders them equally unfit” for theP 
vegetables. No ſpecies of tree, or even {hruby 8 foun 
the iſlands of Spitzbergen ; a circumſtance of the mol 


1 


—_ 
- 


np. E N M A R* K. 1 27 
„ filors. Without fire it was impoſſible to reſiſt the ri - 
en climate ; and Without wood. how: was that fre to be 
x ſupported ? Providence, however, has ſo ordered it, 
x particular, the ſea ſupplies the defects of the land. In 
| the beach, they collected plenty of wood, which 
© ren aſhore by the waves z and which at firſt conſiſted of 
% of (hips, and afterwards of whole trees with their roots, 
ws of ſome more hoſpitable, but ta them unknown climate, 
averflowing of rivers, or other accidents, had ſent into 
+ Tis will not appear incredible to thoſe who h. s per - 
ammals of the ſeveral navigators who have been forced to 
Nova Zembla, or any other country in a ſtill more North · 


* proved of more eſſential ſervice to thoſe unfortunate men, 
t& firſt year of their exile, than ſome boards they found up · 
ach, having a long iron hook, ſorne nails of about five or 
x long, and proportionably thick, and other bits of old iron 
them ; the melancholy relics of ſome veſſels caſt away in thoſe 
uns, Theſe were thrown aſhore by the waves at a time 
rant of powder gave our men reaſon to apprehend that 
fall a prey to hunger, as they had nearly conſumed thoſe 
they had killed. is lacky circumſtance. was attended 
ther, equally fortunate 2 they found on the ſhore the root 
ee, which nearly approached to the figure of a bow. . 
xefity has ever been the mother of invention, ſo they ſoon 
jthis root to a good bow, by the help of a knife. But till 
ted a ſtring and arrows. Not knowing how to procure 
preſent, they reſolved upon making a couple of lances, to 
themſelves againſt the white bears, by far the moſt ferocious 
lad, whoſe attacks they had great reaſon to dread. 
by they could neither make the heads of their lances, nor 
ons, without the help of a hammer, they contrived to 
krge irof hook mentioned above into one, by heating it, 
ang a hole it happened to have about its middle, with the 
ite of their largeſt nails. This received the handle, and a 
ſton at one end of the hook ſerved for the face of the ham - 
lege pebble ſupplied the place of an anvil; and a couple 
rs horns made the tongs, . By the means of ſuch tools, 
© two heads of ſpears; and after poliſhing and tharpening - 
kones, they tied them as faſt as poſſible with thongs made 
er ſkins, to (ticks about the thickneſs of a man's arm, which 
tom ſome branches of trees that had been caſt on ſhore. -- 
qupped with ſpears, they reſolved to attack a white bear; 
nol dangerous encounter, they killed the formidable 
ad thereby made a new ſupply of proviſions. The fleſh 
Mal they reliſhed exceedingly, as they thought it much re- 
kel in tate and flavour. The tendons they ſaw, with much 
ud, wich little or no trouble, be divided into filaments, 
ire, they thought fit. This perhaps was the moſt for- 
ery theſe men could have made; for beſides other ad- 
Mich vill be hereafter mentioned, they were hereby fur- 
ling, for their bow. Pty 
M m 2 The 


as n = * * a 
The ſucceſs of our unfortunate iſlanders in waking 


_ "ME and the uſe theſe proved of, encouraged them to proces 
_- . forge ſome pieces of iron into heads uf arrows of the { 
_ though ſomewhat ſmaller in fize than the above ms 
* Having ground and ſharpened theſe like the former, they t 
with the ſinews of the white bears to picees of fir; to-whic 
belp of fine threads of the farue, they faltened feathers of 
| and thus became poſſeſſed of a.- complete bow and arrows 
Ingenuity, in this reſpect, was crowned with ſucceſs fur ber 
expec # ion; for during the time of their contintiance upon i 
with theſe arrows they killed no leſs thantwo hundred and 
deer, beſides a number of blue and white ſotes 1 
theſe animals ſerved them alſo for food and their king 
thing, and other neceſſary preſervatives againit the intenie ci 
a climate ſo near the pole. 
They killed however only ten white bears in all and 
without the utmoſt danger; for theſe animals being pre 
ſtrong, defended themſelves with aſtoniſhing vigour and ft 
f firſt our men attacked defignediy; the other nine they: fl 
fending . themſelves from their aſſaults: for ſome of thele 6 
even ventured to enter the outer room of the hut, in drd 
your them. It is true, that all the bears did not ſhew (if 1 
allowed the expreſſion) equal intrepidity j either owing-t6 
ing leſs preſſed by „or to their being by nature le 
rous than the others : for ſome of them which entered the 
mediatsly betook themielves to flight on the firſt attempt of 
ors to drive them away. A repetition,” however, of theſe | 
attacks threw the poor men into great terror and anxiety; 
were in almoſt a perpetual danger of being deyoured. 
different kinds of animals above-mentioned; vis. the ein 
dlew and white foxes, and the white bears, were the only 
wretched mariners taſted during their continuance in ch 
abode. LOR ei Yoga rt ; 
We do not at once ſee every reſource./ It is generally 
which quickens our invention, opening by degrees our 
pointing out expedients which otherwiſe might never-have 
to our thoughts. The truth of this obſervation our ſour 
perienced in vatious inſtances. /'' They were for ſome time 
to the neceſſity of eating their meat almoſt raw, ang wn 
bread or falt; for they were quite deſtitute of both, I 
neſs of the cold, together with the want of proper cn 
prevented them from cooking their viduals in a proper 
There was but one ſtove in the hut, and that being tet up 
to the Kuſſian taſte, was more like an oven, and cant 
well adapted for boiling any things Wood alſo was we 
commodity to be waſted in keeping up two fires ; and the 
might have made out of their habitation to dreſs their vi 
in ho way have ſerved to warm them. Another realon ag: 
cooking in the open air, was the continual danger of an 1 
the white bears. And here I muſt obſerve, that 
made the attempt, it would ſtill have been pradicable for « 
part of the year ; for the cold; which, in ſuch © cxmare 


+: $4 


\ 


D 


n 


2 


Len 


—_— = = 


\ & 
ele & 
orde 
(1 
to 
lels 
the 
* 0 
” 
ety 


n  'Ihy 

g | . | ſt.» 

farce ever abates, from the long abſence of the ſun, then 
"the oppoſite hemiſphere : the inconceiyable quantity of 
i contianally falling through the greateſt part of the 
with * * — I trn 
un inſurmountable acles to that expedi ern. 
. therefore, in ſome degree, the hardſhip of eating 
half raw, they bethought themſelves of drying ſpme 
en during che Summer in the open air, and afterwards 
ir it up in the upper part of the hut, which, as I mention · 
es continually filled with ſmoke down-to che windows z 
thus dried thoroughly by the help of that {inoke. This meat, 
4, they uſed for bread, and it made them reliſh their other 
better, as they could only half drefs it. Finding this, ex+ 

© anſwer in every reſpect their wiſhes, they continued to-prac- 
kuring the whole time of their confinement upon the illand, 
js kept up by that means a ſuſficient ſtock of proviſions, 
they had in Summer from ſmall rivulets that tell froni the 
ud in Winter, from the ſnow and ice hawed; this was of 
heir only beverage ; and their ſmall kettle was the only vei 
could make uſe of for this and other purpoſess. 
rell known, that ſeafaring people are extremely ſubject 40 
and it has been obſerved, that this diſeaſe increaſts in 

jog 25 we approach the poles ; which muſt be attributed ei · 
the exceſſive cold, or to lame other cauſe yet unknown, Hows 


kat may be, our mariners, ſeeing themſelves quite deſtitute of 


weans of cure, in caſe they ſhould be attacked with 1b — 

x, judged it expedient not to negleR any regimen gener 

d as 2 — againſt this impending > ks Him- 
of their number, who had ſeveral times Wintered on the 

{ Welt-Spitzbergen, adviſed his unfortunate companions 40 


raw and frozen meat, broken into ſmall bits 3 to Yrink the 


rein deer warm, as it flowed from their veins immediately 
ling them; to uſe as much exerciſe as poſſible ; and, lay, 
my. graſs, (cochlearia), which grows on the land, though 
peat plenty. 


pe the faculty to determine whether raw frozen fleſh, or warm 


er-blood, be proper antidotes to the diſtemper ; but exerciſe, 
ule of ſcurvy- graſs, have always been recommended to per · 
aſcorbutic tendency, whether actually aſſſicted with the diſ - 
i not. Be this as it may, experience at leaſt ſeems to have 
Itteſe remedies to be effectual; for three of the ſailors who 
dle above method, continued totally free from all taint of 

The fourth, Feodor Weregin, on the contrary, who 


Barally indolent, averſe to drinking the rein- deer blood, and 


z u leave the hut when he could poſſibly avoid it, was, ſoon 


le arrival on the iſland, ſeized with the ſeurvy; which af- 


b became ſo bad, that he paſſed almoſt ſix years undet the 
Laſerings: in the latter part of that time, he became ſo 
Mt de could no longer ſit ere, nor even raiſe his hand to 
Ma; ſo that his humane companions were obliged to feed and 
d like a new-born infant, to the hour of his death. | 

"Xitioned above, that our ſailors brought a ſmall of 

our 


—̃ —— - 


” 
„ - — — ä — — — — ͥͤ Dääää 
- 


a continual fire in ſo cold a climate ; and found, that if it 6 


they could have thought of; for to be without a light, in 
where, during Winter, darkneſs reigns for ſeveral months 


fore faſhioned a kind of lamp, they filled it with rein-deer's 
| ſoaked into the clay, but fairly run h it on all fi 


the lamp was made being too porous. They made chereſt 
joy, it did not leax. But for greater ſecurity,” they dig 


remainder of their flour for ſimilar purpoſes: 
| ſhore, to ſupply them with fuel, they had ſound amongſt 


(a work they ſet about ſoon after their arrival on the Wn put 


. courſe to that ingenuity which neceſſity ſuggelts, and 0 


det eh them to che iſland. | Of this they wa 
half with their meat ; the remainder they — 
manner, equally uſeful. They ſoon ſaw the neceſſity of 


fortunately go out, they had no means of lighting it a 


1 her | 4.1 Su. 

In their excurſions through the iſland; they had mers; 
loam, or a kind of clay, nearly in the middle of K. Ou 
they, found means to form a utenſil which might ferve for 
and they propoſed to keep it conſtantly burning with the f 
animals they ſhould kill. This was certainly the moſt rarisr 


would have added much to their other calamities.- Hart 


ſtuck in it ſome twiſted linen, ſhaped into'a wick. But th 
mortification to find, that as ſoon as the fat" melted, it 


thing therefore was to deviſe ſome means for | 
venieney, not arifing from cracks, but from the ſubſtance 


one, dried it thoroughly in the air, then heated it red hot; 
terwards quenchedit in their kettle, wherein they had boiled 


tity of flour down to the conſiſtence of thin ſtareh. The E nn 


thus dried, and filled with melted fat, they now found; to d 


rags in their paſte, and with them covered all its outſide 

ing in this attempt, they immediately made another lamp 
of an accident, that in all events they might not be deſtitute 
and when they had done ſo much, they thought proper tu con! 


As they had carefully collected whatever happened to! 


of veſſels ſome cordage, and a ſmall-quantity of -oakum,{ 
hemp uſed for calking ſhips), which ſerved them te male 
their lamp. When hes ſtores began to fail, their ſhirts, 
drawers, (which are worn by almoſt all Ruſſian peaſants) 
ployed to make good the deficiency. By theſe means they 
lamp burning without intermiſſion, from the day they in 


that of their embarkation for their native country.” | 
The neceſſity of converting the moſt eſſential parts o ms 
ing, ſuch as their ſhirts and drawers, to the ule above fer ale, 
poſed them the more to the rigour of the climate. Theft 
themſelves in want of ſhoes, boots, and other articles uf d 
as Winter was approaching, they were again obliged © 


fails in the trying hour of diſtreſs. . 

They had ikins of rein - deer and ſoxes in plenty, thats 
to ſerved them ſor bedding, and which they nom woch 
ploying in ſome more eſſential ſervice; but the queen! 


* 


N | | 
D E NM A'R EE m»y 
method : They ſoaked the ikins for ſeveral days in freſh war 
they could pull off the hair pretty eaſily f they then rubbed 
eather with their hands till it was nearly dry, when 
bme melted rein-deer-fat over it, and again rubbed it well. 
groceſs the leather became ſoft, phant, and ſupple, proper 
urig every purpoſe they wanted it for, Thoſe ſkins which 
eld for furs, they only ſoaked for one day, to-prepare them 
yrought, and then proceeded in the manner before-men- 
acept.only that they did not remove the hair. Thus they 
wided themſelves with the neceſſary materials for all the 
irc they wanted. . worth abun . 
tre another difficuly occurred.---They had neither awls for 
hoes or boots, nor needles for ſewing their nts. This 
however, they ſoon ſupplied by means of bits of iron 
A occaſionally collected. Out of theſe they made both; and 
induſtry even brought them to a certain degree of perfec- 
The making eyes to their needles gave them indeed no little 
; but this they alſo performed with the aſfiſtance of their 
for having ground it to a very ſharp point, and heated red - 
ad of wire forged for that purpoſe, they pierced a hole thro” 
and by whetting and ſmoothing it on ſtones, brought the 
pa point, and thus gave the whole needle a very tolerable 
Theſe needles had no fault except the eye ; which being made 
manner above mentioned, was fo rough, that it often cut the 
Irawn through it; an imperfection they could not poſſibly re- 
want of better tools. . '» 
to cut out the ſkins, were what they nex: had occaſion 
t having none, their place they ſupplied with their knife: 
wok there was neither tailor nor ſhoemaker amongſt them, 
F contrived to cut out their leather and furs well enough for 
poſe, The ſinews of the bears and the rein-deer, which, as I 
| before, they has found means to ſplit, ſerved them for 
add thus provided with the neceſſary implements, they pro- 
bo make their new clothes. 1 
ſummer-dreſs conſiſted of a kind of jacket and trowſers, 
ins prepared as I have mentioned above; and in Winter 
t long fur gowns, like the Samojedes; or Laplanders, fur- 
da hood, which covered their head and neck, leaving on- 
ing for the face. Theſe gowns were ſewed cloſe round, 
1 _ on, they were obliged to bring them over, their 
e furt. | 6 /* 
jg the uneaſineſs which generally accompanies an involun- 
Ke, theſe people, having thus by their ingenuity ſo far o- 
tir wants, might have had reaſon to be contented with 
Pidence had done for them in their diſtreſsful ſituation; 
wlancholy reflection: to which each of theſe forlorn perſons 
telp giving way, that perhaps he might ſurvive his com- 
nd then periſh for want of ſubſiſtence, or become a prey 
bealts, inceſſantly diſturbed their minds. The mate, A- 
wi, more particularly ſuffered, who having left a wife and 
a behind, ſorely repined at his being . 
em; 


1 


a 


7 


a pole. The people on 


them: they were, conſtantly in his mind and ti 
more — them made oo flo —— Abr we 


When our four mariners had paſſed nearly'fix | 4 
place, Feodor Weregin, whoſe illneſs — 1 
bove, and who all along had been in a languid condition, EC it 
ter mag in the latter part of his life, fuffered molt oe be 
| pains: ough they were thus freed from the trouble of 
m, and the grief of being witneſſes to bis miſery; with 
able to afford him any relief; yet his death'affeted then , o 
ne. They ſaw their number leſſened; and every one wit bt t 
the firſt that ſhould follow him. As be died in Winter, M. 
grave in the ſnow as deep as they could, in which chey WW: 5: 
| and then covered it to the belt of their power; ii: 
white bears might not get at it. | "7 
Now, at the time when the melancholy refle@ions- otra 1/: | 
the death of their comrade, were freſh in their minds, ar aft 
each expected to pay this laſt duty to the remaining” cf l 
his misfortunes, or to receive it from them, they unerpel ng 
fight of a Ruſſian ſhip : this happened on the ich of A 
The veſſel belonged to a trader, of the ſect called by is int 
Stara Vieva, that is, The Od Faith, who had come with it Mr B 


angel, propoſing it ſhould winter in Nova Zembla ; but fe vcr: 
ſor our poor exiles, Mr Vernezobre propoſed to the merci 
his veſſel winter at Weſt-Spitzbergen, which he at laſt; aft 
objections, agreed to. | | 
The contrary winds they met with on their paſſage, u 
poſſible for them to reach the place of their deſtmation. 
was driven towards Eaſt-Spitzbergen, directiy oppoſite to « 
dence of our mariners; who, as ſoon as they perceived 1 * 
ened to light fires upon the hills neareſt their habitation, 
ran to the beach, waving a flag made of 'rein-deer's bidet 
Waal ſeeing theſe ſignals, concla 
their were men on the iſland who implor d their alliſtance, a 
fore came to an anchor. near the ſhore. | | 
It would be in vain to attempt deſcribing"thejoy of 
people, at ſeeing the moment of their deliverance ſe ne 
ſoon agreed with the maſter of the ſhip-to-work for him on 
age, and to pay him eighty rubles on their-arrival, for tak 
on board, with al} their riches ; which conſiſted in 30 pot 
pound weight of rein-deer fat; in many hides of theſe an 
ſkins of the blue and white foxes, together wich the d tens 0, 
bears they had killed. They took care not to forget tran 
arrows, their ſpears, their knife and axe, which were an 
vat; their awls, and their needles, which they kept em 
bone-box, very ingenuouſſy made with their knife only 
ſhort, every thing they were poſſeſſed of. 4 | 
Our adventurers arrived fave at Archangel on the 1 
tember 1749, having ſpent ſix years and three months in 
ſolitude. | | . f 
The moment of their landing was ſo nearly prog! 
loving and beloved wife of Alexis Himkof, | whoy den 
when the veſſel came into port, immediately knew ber 313 


l (hel 
eople, 


8 — * A W >a # 
bvb E N MA. Rr . 26t, 
© auch eagerneſs. to his embraces, that ſhe ſlipped into 
and very narrowly eſcaped being drowned. .. .., 
en their arrival were [trong and healthy 4 but having 
without bread, they could not reconcile themſelves to 
i; and complained that it filled them with wind. Nor 


tear any ſpiritous liquors, and therefore drank nothing 


- 


— 


N 


— - 


or readers may ugh 7 12 conſider this recital in the ſame. 
it they do the hiſtory of Robinſon Cruſoe: the truth of theſs 

«is however ſufficiently authenticated. When theſe unfortu- 

rs firt arrived at Archangel, they were examined apart by 

ut, chief auditor of the admiralty of that city, who mi- 

mall the particulars, which exactly correſponded with each 

Mr Le Roy, profeſſor of hiſtory in the Imperial Academy, 
after ſent for two of the men, viz. Alexis Himkof, 

his god-ſon, to Peterſburg, from whoſe mouths he took 


225 


=> = 
=> — e 


os rarrative, which alſo agreed with Mr: Klinſtadt's mi- 
original was publiſhed in the German language, at Pe- 
ts in the year 1769, and tranſmitted from.thence to the in- 
+ Mr Banks, who, with ſeveral other members of the Royal 
| 


were ſo well pleaſed with the account, that they directed a 
of it to be made into Engliſh, | e 


„ 
C2 


WEST GREENLAND. 
country lies between the latitudes 60 and 75 degrees North 


f between the longitudes of o e and 50 degrees Weſt; it 
cal very barren, ſcarcely producing any trees or herbage. 
* | accounts it is thought there are about 7000 inhabitants 


{ part of theſe rove from place to place for hunting or 
which they are very expert, during their Summer months, 
rery hot: in the Wiater, which is extremely cold, they 
| ſheltered huts upon the ſtock they eollect in Summer. 
eople, which are very rude, are, in their aſpect, manners, 
þ like the Eſquimaux Indians, in the Northern parts of 
that it may, be thought the two people are allied to one 
The Danes have lately ſent ſome miſſionaries to convert 
Initianity, and to lead a ſettled life; but the good efforts 
lors have not yet produced any conſiderable change,” 
wtowns found in the country, nor any produce futficient 
Irngers to traffic with them: indeed Bey have a very 
ery on the coaſt. 1 3 | 
ICELAND ISsTAN S. 
between the latitudes of 63 and 664 degrees North, and 
the longitades of 12 and 29 degrees Weſt; is about 180 
Land South, and about 400 miles Eaſt and Weſt : the 
ir barren, ſcarce any thing thriving, there. beſides juni; 
þbreb, and willow; the bread uſed here is made of * 
— J 


282 - N E  W A FE & 
fiſh ground to a powder; and the fleſh” eaten, beſide i 
bears, wolves, and foxes z but fith, with their rodts and 
their preatel} dainnies, oO ET 

The inhabitants are eſtimated at abont'86,000; but 
they. were formerly more numerous, before the ſally 
peſtilential diſeaſes got amongſt the iflanders : they al 
and an honeſt, induſtrious, and hardy people; amuſingt 
in finging, playing at cheſs, and other innocent amuſeas 
differ very little from the Danes and Norwegfans, from 
probable they were deſcended ; their anceſtors might pe 
ſoyght an afylum here, to be exempt” from thetyranbyt 
niſh kings; but royal power followed them. 
The chief town is called Skalholt, fituate among the 
is a biſhop's ſee,” and the refidence of the Daniſh govery 
puty-governor; whoſe fallary is 400 rix-dollars u fan 

They export dried fiſh, ſalted mutton and famb, train 

woolen cloth, ſtockings, foxes furrs, feathers, anda fey 
ticles; and receive timber, fiſhing tackle, bread; horſe 
ſalt, and a few luxuries for the opulent. 

The inhabitants live under the Daniſh protecion, andy 
revenue to the king of about $0,c00 crowns'a year. 

The moſt remarkable thing in this iſland is the'mountat 
cano of Hecla. nn 


Tar FARO ISLES. 


T*HESE are about 24 in number, lie in a cluſter with 
of a degree in latitude and longitude, about 64 dey 
and 7 degrees Welt ; they are, in ſoil and vegetation, 
unlike Iceland; and between 3coo and 4000 inhabitants 
very little ſervice to Denmark: | 


— 


1 4 . 


' Situation, Extent, Di+ } HE whole country of 


vii ſion and Name. . extends, ſo far 26 i 
from the North Cape in 71 -· 30. N. lat. to- the White-les 
artic circle, and is ſubject to different powers. Norwegul 
belongs to the Danes, and is ineluded in the goveramen 
huys; part belongs to the Swedes, which is by far dhe 
able; and ſome parts, in the Eaſt, to the Muſcovſtes. # 
little better than waſting the reader's time, to pretend to 
the ſuppoſed dimenſions of each. That belonging to d 
may be ſeen in the table of dimenſions given in the. acco 
den: but other accounts ſay, that it is about 100 Cem 
length, and o in breadth ; it comprehends all the coun 
Baſtic, to the mountains that ſeparate Norway from doe 
Muſcovite part lies towards the Eaſt; betweeñ the lake 
the White-ſea. Thoſe parts, notwithſtanding the fut 
country, are divided into ſmaller diſtricts; generally | 
names from rivers ; but, unleſs in the Swediſh*part, 


B R N M A R 283 
ed, the Laplanders can be ſaid. to be under no Al 
' The Swediſh Lapland therefore is che object co - 
— rs in deſcribing this country. It has been 8 
at the Laplanders are the deſcendants of Finlanders dri. 
{their own country, and that they take their name from 
hich ſignifies exiles The reader, from what has been 
introduction, may eaſily conceive that in Lapland, for 
; in the Summer, the ſun never ſets; and during the 
, of time in Winter, it never riſes; but the inhabitants 

— bled by the twilight and the aurora borealis, that they no- 
naue their work through darkneſss w ĩñÿ 


la Winter, it is no unuſual thing | for their lips to be 
the cup in attempting to drink; and in ſome thermome- 
+ of wine are concreted into ice: the limbs of the inhabi - 
often mortified with cold ; drifts, of ſnow; threaten, to bury 
ler, and cover the ground four, or five feet deep · A thaw 
s takes place, and then the froſt that ſucceeds, preſents the 
with a ſmooth level of ice, over which be travels in his 
\ inconceivable ſwiftaeſs. The heats of Summer are ex- 
a ſhort time; and the cataracts which. daſh from the moun- 
en preſent to the eye the moſt pictureſque appearances, 


vin, Rivers, Lakes, and Forefts,] The reader myſt form in 

2 vaſt maſs of mountains irregularly erowded together, 
im an idea of Lapland: they are, however, in ſome inter- 
arated by 'rivers and lakes, which contain an incredible 
thin Wo nds, ſome of which form pleaſant hahitations; and 
ed by the natives to be the terreſtrial paradiſe; even roſes 
Mn, rs grow wild on their borders in the Summer; but this is 
ts; Wt gleam of temperature; for the climate in general is ex- 
ſevere, Duſky foreſts, and noiſome, unhealthy moraſſes, 
a part of the flat country; ſo that nothing can be more 
ble than the ſtate of the inhabitants. Kp 


; Y | "Ts ; © 558 
ad Miperals.] Silver and. gold mines, as well as thoſe of 
nd lead, have been diſcovered and worked in Lapland: 
chryſtals are ſound here, as are ſome amethyſts and topa- 
 \arious forts of mineral ſtones, ſurprizingly poliſhed by 
— cl Nature ; valuable pearls have been ſometimes found in 
| u never in the ſeas. wo1 Sgt ' Ph gr 


„ The aibelin, a. creature reſembling the martin, is a 
| Lapland; and its Kin, whether black or white, is ſo much 

Mat it is frequently given as preſents to royal and diſtin- 
ſonages. The Lapland hares grow white in the Winter; 
| mntry produces a large black cat, which attends the na- 
wel ating, By far the moſt remarkable, however, of the 
wals, is the rein- deer; which nature ſeems to have pro- 
blace the Laplanders for the privation of the other com- 
t „ This animal, the moſt uſeful perhaps of any in the 
Kembles the tag, only it ſomewhat droops the head, and 


” 


Naz = the 


* 
* 


[ 


bb D EN M A 
tte horns project forward. In Sutnter; tlie rig -der jg 
ſelves with leaves and graft, and in the Winter they u 
moſs already deſeribed: they have à Wonderful fagaciy 
it gut, and when found, they ſerape away* the Tow the 
— their —— "A ſcantineſs of their fare is iticone 
the len the journies which they can perform 9. 
, They x the rein- deer to a kind f 
mall boat, in which the traveller, well ſecyred from: call 
down, with the reins in one hand, and a kind f Mido 
other, to keep the carriage clear of ice and ſnow. The 
harnefling is very ſimple, ſets 6ut, and continues he jos 
prodigious ſpeed ; and is fo ſafe and tractable, that the 
little or no trouble in directing him. At night they ls 
their own provender ; and their milk oſtem helps 16 fag 
maſter. Their inſtin& in chuſing the road'and'direfiing t 
can only be accounted for, by their being well acquainted 
country during the Summer months, when they Bt in we 
fleſh is a well taſted food, whether freſh or dried their 
excellent cloathing both for che bed and the body theit 
cheeſe are nutritive and pleaſant; and their iteflines « 
ſupply their maſters with thread and cordage When't 
bout wild in the fields, they may be ſhot at as other gun 
is ſaid, that if one is killed in a flock, the ſarvivors wil 
trample him to pieces; therefore fingle Rragplets an 
-pitched upon; Were I to reebunt every *cireumltanics 
the credulous, of this animal, the whole would appear 
It is ſufficient to obſerve further, that the number of tam 
poſſoſſed by a Laplander, forms the chief part of his rick 
all their excellent qualities, however, the rein-deer have 
eee 
It is difficult in Summer to keep them ſrom (rapyling 
ſometimes buried in the ſnow ; and they frequently gros 
the great danger of the driver and his carriage. fn 
ſpeed (for they are ſaid to run at the rate of t une 
day) ſeems to be owing te his impatience to get nid f 
brance. None but a Laplander could bear the une 
he is confined'in one of thoſe carriages or pulkhes; ors 
by whiſpering the rein · deer in the ear, they know che | 
deſtination But after all thoſe abatements, the natives 
[difficulty to fabba without their rein-deer, which fert 
more purpoſes than I have room to mention. 


People, Cuſtoms, and Mannert.] The language of the 
is barbarous, but it ſeems radically to have come 10 
Learning has made no progreſs among them); and the! 
arts only as ſupply them with the means of living Miſh 
the Chriſtianized parts of Scandinavia, introduced amen 
Chriſtian religion; but they cannot be ſaid even yet to 
though they have — them ſome religious ſemana 


by the king of Denmark. Upon the Whole, the ma 
Laplanders practiſe as groſs ſuperſtitions and idolatries 
found among the molt uninſtructed Pagans and Þ 9 


DENMARK ads; 
jr deſerve to be mentioned, were it not that the nner 
of their ſuperſtitions, have induced the Northern 
\belteve that they are ſkiltul in magic and divination. For 
e their magicians, who are a peculiar ſet of men, make 
Lat they call a drum, made of the hollowed trunk uf a fir, 
birch-tree, one end of which is covered with a ſkin ; on 
draw, with a kind of red-· colour. the figures of their own 
well as of Jeſus Chriſt, the apoſtles, the ſun, moon, ſtara, 
1 rivers; on theſe they place one or two braſs rings, which, 
drum is beaten with a little hammer, dance over the fi- 
and according to their progrels, the ſorterer prognoſticates. 
nie operations Are generally performed for gain; and the 

hip-malters' are ſuch düpes to the arts of che impoſtors, 
j often buy from them a magie cord, which contains a num - 
hots, by opening of which, according to the magieian's di- 
they gain what wind they want. This is à very common 
i the banks of the Red · ſea, and is managed with great ad- 
the part of the ſorcerer, ho keeps up the price-of his knot- 
ban, The Laplanders ſtill retain the'-worthip'of-many of 
nie gods, but have among them great remains of the dru- 
fitutions. They believe the tranſmigration of the ſoul ; and 
livals ſet apart for the worſhip of certain genii, called Jenh- 
d they think inhabit the air, and have great power over hu- 
hons ; but being without ſorm or "ſubſtance, they aflign to 
ther images nor ltatues. 4 4 Thy 
nd is but poorly peopled, owing to the general barrenneſs 
l. The whole number of its inhabitants may amount to a- 
50 Both men and women are in general ſhorter by the 
n more Southern Europeans. Maupertuis meuſured a wo- 
0 vas ſuckling her own child, whoſe height did not exceed 
two inches and about a half; they make, however, à more 
appearance than the men, who are ill ſnaped and ugly, and 
6s too large for their bodies, | þ- 
ha Laplander intends to marry, he, or his friends, court 
ded bride's father with brandy ; when, with ſome difficulty, 
admittance to his fair one, he offers her a beaver's'tongue, 
ther eatable ; which ſhe rejects before company, but ac- 
in private, Cohabitation often precedes marriage; but 
mittance to the fair one is purchaſed from her father by the 
da bottle of brandy, and this prolongs the courtthipſome- 
Ir three years. The prieſt of the parith at laſt celebrates the 
; but the bridegroom is - obliged to ſerve his father-in-law 
jears after. He then carries his wife and her fortune home. 


me ] Little can be ſaid of the commerce of the Laplanders. 
ports conſiſt of fiſh, rein-deer, furs, baſkets, and toys; 
be dried pikes, and cheeſes made of the rein-deer milk. They 
ir theſe, rixdollars, woolen cloths, linen, copper, tin, flour, 
w needles, knives, ſpiritous liquors, tobacco, and other ne- 
| their mines are generally worked by foreigners, and pro- 
neonſiderable profit. The Laplanders travel in a kind of 
Mi their families, to the” Finland and Norway 2 

nd 


\ 


__s I B MN M 3 x 
Aud the reader may make ſome eſlimate of the medians 
among them,” when he is told, that fifty: ſquirrebſkins, 
tkin, and a pair of Lapland fhoes, produce one kinda 
Computation can be made of the public revenue, the a 
of which is allotted for the maintenance of the clergy. 
to the ſecurity of their property, few diſputes- happen 
Judges have no military to enforce their decrees; the now! 
a remarkable averſion to war; and ſo far as we knoy, 
loyed. in any army) 7, 27 l 258 
* & 22 Dan FP „ Lene 
NON 
6 . country lies between the, latitudes, of 58 and! 
1. North, about 600 miles ; and between the lang 
ß degrees Eaſt, but, on a mean, cannot be reckoned x 
miles an the breadth. ng holwongd . 
Bounded on the North and Weſt by the Northern oc 
South by eee or entrance into the Balli 
the Eaſt by a chain of mountains, in general called th 
parting it from Sweden, but have different names in diff 
of the country. 1442 te 


— 


Climate. ] The climate of Norway varies. according tai 
and its expoſiture towards the ſea. _ At Bergen, the Wia 
derate, and the ſea is practicable. The Eaſtern parts of NG * 
commonly covered with ſnow.; and the cold generally { 
the middle of October, with intenſe ſeverity, tothe middle 
the waters being all that while frozen to a-conſiderablethi 
#719, ſeven thouſand Swedes, who were on their march 
Drontheim, periſhed in the fnow, on the mountains whid 
Sweden from Norway; and their bodies were found injabk 
tures. But even froſt and ſnaw have their conveniences, 
cilitate the conveyance of goods by land. As to the more 
parts of this country, called Finmark, the cold is © mans .” 
they are but little known. At Bergen, the longelt day 
about nineteen hours, and the ſhorteſt about fix. In Suns br th 
Habitants can read and write at midnight, by the light « 
and in the moſt Northerly parts, about Midſummer, the e 
nually in view. In thoſe parts, however, in the middle Md the 
there is only a faint. glimmering of light at noon, ſor ab * 
and a half; owing to the reflection of the ſun's. rays 08 . 
tains. Nature, notwithſtanding, has been ſo kind tothe * 
ans, that in the midſt of their darkneſs, the ſky is lo. | 
the moon and the aurora borealis ſo bright, that they al 
there fiſhery, and work at their ſeveral trades in open ah Meta 
The air is ſo pure in ſome of the inland parts, that the! | 
live ſo long as to be tired of life; and cauſe thenelves n te 
ported to a leſs ſalubrious air. Sudden thaws, and fn &hca 
however, ſometimes dreadful effects, and deſtroy whole 1 


Mountains.] Norway is reckoned one of 4he molt mi 
countries in the world; for it contains a chain of und 


# 
: 


— 
0 


Dp E N M A R M. 287 


- from South to North: to paſs that of Hardanger, 
uarel about ſeventy Engliſh miles; and to puſs others, up- 
-- Dofreficld is counted the higheſt mountain perhaps, 
The rivers and cataraQs which interſect thoſe dreadfub 
ind are paſſable only by flight tottering wooden bridges; 
ling in this country very terrible and dangerous ; tho” 
ment is at the expence of providing, at different ſtages, 
mmodated with fire, light, and kitehen furniture. De- 
\n this vaſt chain, othef immenſe mountains preſent them 
wer Norway; ſome of them with reſervoirs of water on 
ud the whole forming a moſt ſurpriſing landſeape- The: 
the natives, in recovering their ſheep and goats, when 
, through a falſe ſtep, in one of thoſe rocks, is wonder- 
awaer directs himſelf to be lowered down from the top of 
tain, fitting on a crofs Rick, tied to the end of a long: 
Lywhen he arrives at the place where the creature ſtands, 
* to the fame cord, and it is drawn up with himſelf. The 
dur are to be met with in thoſe mountains, are more won- 
i thoſe, perhaps, in any other part of the world, though 
to obſervation. One of them, called Dolſteen, was, in 
kited by two clergymen ; who reported, that they proceeded 
ey heard the ſea daſhing over their heads; thut the paſ- 
u. vide and high as an ordinary church, the ſides perpen- 
und the roof vaulted : that they deſcended a flight of natu - 
dot when they arrived at another, they durſt not venture 
L but returned; and that they confumed two candles go- 


arning. 


] The chief wealth of Norway lyes in its foreſts, which 
reigners with maſts, beams, planks, and boards; and 
e for all domeſtic uſes; particularly the conſtruction of 
dyes, ſhips, and for charcoal to the founderies. The 
der growing here are fir and pine, elm, aſh, yew, benreed, 
erious wood) birch, beech, oak, eel, or alder, juniper, 
tee, the comel, or floe-tree, haſeh elder; and even ebo- 
&r the mountains of Kolen)q lyme and willows. The ſums 
ray receives for timber, are very conſiderable; but the 
0! the inhabitants is greatly aſſiſted by the courſe of their 
nd tle ſituation of their lakes; which affords them not on- 
remency already mentioned, of floating down their tim- 
that of erecting faw-mills, for dividing their large beams 
zend deals, A tenth of all ſawed timber belongs to his 
, and forms no inconſiderable part of his revenue. 


Metals, and Minerals. ] Norway tontains quarries of excel- 
© 25 well as many other kinds of ſtones; and the magnet 
u the iron mines. The amianthus, or aſbeſtos, which, 
Ehcxte fibres are wove into eloth, are cleaned by the fire, 
und here: as are chryſtale, granates, aivethyſts, agate;. 
"es, and eagle-ſtones. Gold found in Norway, has been 
wcats, Some: filver mines have been ſound in different parts 
WY; and one-of the many ſilver maſſes that have been 
diſcovered, 


| 
9 4 
* ( 
. $ | 
| 
[ 
: 
| ; 
4 
1 


2 


diſcovered, weighing 560 pounds, is to be: 
mon in this country g one of the copper- miges at Nome 
ſulphur, vitriol, allum, and various kinds df lam; th 


288 zD"E N M A R it 


ſeum at Copenhagen. The lead, copper, 3 | 


to be che richeſt in Europe. Norway likewiſe, n , 
manufactures of which bring in a large revenue t the cn 


Rivers and Lakes.) The rivers and freſh · water lakes fn. 
try are well ſtocked with, fiſh , and navigable for veſſeh of 
able burden. The molt extraordinary circumſtance am 
lakes is, that ſome of them contain floating iſſande, foray 
coheſion of roots of trees and ſhrubs: and though torn þ 
main land, bear herbage and trees. 80 late as the yea 
noble family ſeat of Borge, near Fredrieſtadt, ſuddenly i 
all its towers and battlements, into an abyſs. too fathom 
and its ſite was inſtantly filled with a piece of water, whid 
a lake 300 ells in length, and about half as broad; This a 
accident, by which fourteen people, and two-hundred head 
the waters of a river. e aro 


ey ds i 4. 1 mts „ [1 8 5 
Uncommon Ani mali, Fouli and Fiſbes.] All the animal that 
of Denmark are to be found in Norway, with anadditionof a 
The wild beaſts peculiar to Norway, aretheelk, the rein · deer 
and rabbit, the bear, the wolf, the lynx, the fox, the glutte 
ming, the ermine, the martin and the beaver: T 
loured animal, its ſttape partaking at once of the horſeanddl 
is harmleſs, and in the Winter, ſocial; and their fleſh taſtes lik 
Theharesare ſmall; and are ſaid to live upon mice in the Mint 
to change their colour from brown to white. The Norweg 
ſtrong and ſagacious : they are remarkable for not hung 
but their other qualities are in common with the relt of the 
in Northern countries; nor can we much credit i very 
nary ſpecimens of their ſagacity, recorded by the natives 
hunted by little dogs; and ſome preſer bear hams to tha 
phalia. the Norwegian wolves, though fierce, are ly.6 
cow or a goat, unlefs impelled by hunger: the natives ate! 
in digging traps for them, in which they are taken/or K 
lynx, by ſome called the goupes, is ſmaller h 
dangerous; they are of the cat-kind, and have claws h 
they dig under ground, and often undermine ſheepslolds 
make dreadful. havock. The ſkin of the lynx is beautiful 
able; as-is that of the black fox. White and en ns 

wiſe found in Norway, and partake of the nature 
mal in other countries; they have à particular way d 
crabs aſhore, by dipping their tails in the watery w 
lays hold of. „ wt: 1 
The glutton, otherwiſe called the erven, or Helfe 
turnſpit dag; with a long body, thick legs, ſharp chu 
his fur, which is variegated, is ſo precious, that ke 
arrows, to preſerve the ſkin unhurt; he is bold, 20d f 
that it ia ſaid he will devour a carcaſe larger tha ht 


- - - . : 
: R 
«1 C of PF 4 ” 3 4 by * 
* # *® Y 3 7 * 
N . : N by , 


tomach eezing himſelf between two cloſe: ſtanding 
1 — even known to eat ſtone — 
amine is a little creature, remarkable for its ſbyneſs and 
; aud few of our readers need to be told, that their fue 
jneipal part even of royal ificence. There is little 
between the martin and a large — foreſt cat, only its 
bout are ſharper ; it is very fierce, and its bite dangerous. 
try produces a greater variety of birds" than Norway. 
build upon roc ks ; their numbers often darken the air, and 
of their wings reſembles a ſtorm ; their ſige is che bigneſs 
duck : they are an aquatie fowl, and their fleſh is much 
No ſewer than thirty different kinds of thruſhes reſide in 
vith various kinds of pi and ſeveral ſorts of beautiful 
bi, The Norwegian cock-of-the-wood, is of 2 black or 
colour, his eye reſembling that of a pheaſant 4 and he is 
the largeſt of all eatable birds. Norway produces two 
cs, the land and the ſea j the former is ſo ſtrong, that 
1 known to carry off a child of two years old; the ſea, 
e, is larger than the other; he ſubſiſts on aquatic ſood 3 
imes darts on large fiſhes with ſueh force, that being una- 
his talons from their bodies, he is dragged into the wa- 


S 8 S = 


wned, | | | 
andinavian lakes and ſeas fre aſtoniſhingly fruitful in all 
re found on the ſea-coaſlts of Europe, which need not here to 
tc ted. Some ſiſhes in thoſe ſeas, however, have their pecu- 
The haac mœren, is 4 ſpedies of ſhark ten fathoms in 
Fits liver yieldsthree eaſks of train oi. The taella-flynder is 
e large turbot, which has been known to cover a man 
| len over board, to keep him from riſing. The ſeaſon 
tal fiſhing is announced to the fiſhermen by the ſpouting of 
h the whales (of which ſeven different ſpecies are men- 
following the herring ſhoals. The large whale reſembles 
th ſmall eres, a dark marble-ſkin, and white belly: They - 
tte land animals, ſtanding upright in the ſea. A young 
en firſt produced, is about nine or ten feet long; and the 
times brings forth two at a birth. The whale devours ſuch an 
mmber of ſmall fiſh, that his belly is often ready to burſt 1 - 
we de makes a moſt tremendous noiſe from pain. The ſmaller 
tdeir revenge; ſome of them faſten on his back, and in- 
kat him: others, with ſharp horns, or rather bones on 
ſwim under his belly, and ſometimes rip it up; ſome 
el with long ſharp teeth, and tear his fleſh. '-Even the 
ot prey declare war againſthim when he comes near the ſur - 
vater; and he has been known to be ſo tortured, that 
t bimſelf to death on the rocks. The coaſts of Norway 
o be the native country of herrings. Innumerable are 
Mt eome from under the ice at the North-pole ; and a- 
tude of Iceland divide themſelves into three bodies: one 
If the Weſtern ifles and coaſts of Scotland, another di- 
© round the Eaſtern part of Great-Britain down the 
(the third enters the Baltic through the Sound. They 
let of the food of the common people; and the cody 
| O o ling. 


rr 


\ 


- 


390 D E N NM A 


ling, kabelian,' and torſk-fiſhes, follow them, and fv 
ſpan ; and are taken in prodigious numbers in fifty cr 
water : theſe, efpecially their roes, and the oil 


| livers, are exported and ſold to great advantagez and ak 


are maintained by the herring and other 6 
of Norway. The fea-devil is about fix feet in lend 

fo called from its monſtrous appearance and \voracity. 

ſcorpion is likewiſe of a hideous form, its head being ly 

whole body, which is about four feet in lengthy and i 
1 fabolouy/ acenmaer ab BAN 
'$ n ous accounts of the ancients, 
ing ſea-monſters, are rendered credible by the produdi 
Norwegian ſeas ; and the ſea · ſnake, or ſerpent of the-on 
longer counted a chimera» In 1756, one of them wa 
— er of a ſhip; its head reſembled that of » berge; 
was large and black, as were the eyes; a white mane h. 


. | Knvck 2 it Roated- on the ſurkice bf the wat de 


atleaſt two feet out of the ſea : between the head and ne 
ven or eight folds which were very thick: and the lay 
ſnake was more than a hundred yards, ſome fay fatha 
have a remarkable ayerſion to the ſmell of caſtory for 
ſon, ſhip, boat, and bark maſters, provide themſelves with 
of that drug, to preyent being overſet ; the ſerpent's 
nerves being remarkably exquiſite, The particularites 
of this animal would be incredible, were. they not att 
oath. Egede (a very creditable author} ſays, that onthe 
of July, 1734, a large and frightful fea-monſter rai 
high out of the water, that its head reached above the 
maſt of the ſhip ; that it had a W ſnout, broad 
ſpouted water like a whale ; that the body ſeemed d 
with ſcales; the ſkin was uneven and wrinkled; and the 
was formed like a ſnake. The body of this monſter is lax 
thick as a hogſhead; his {kin is variegated like.a tortouet 
his excrement, which floats upon the ſurface of the wateh 
ſive, and bliſters the hands of the ſeamen if they handle 
I ſhould be under great difficulty in mentioning the's 
korven, were not its exiſtence proved d ſtrongly, as el 
out of all doubt. Its bulk is ſaid to be a mile anda hat 
ference ;z and when part of it appears above the water/® 
a number of ſmall iſlands and ſand- bands, on Wach! 
themſelves, and ſeaweeds grow: upon a farther emergens 
ber of pellucid antennæ, each about the height, form, W 
moderate maſt, appear; and by their action and re- 
his food, conſiſting of ſmall fiſhes. When be fich, 
gradually, a dangerous ſwell of the ſea ſucceeds and 
whirlpool is naturally formed in the water. In 1686, ? 
ken periſhed among the rocks and cliffs of the pariſh of 4 
and his death was attended by ſuch a ſtench, that the © 
it died was impaſſable. Without entering ine any em 
ries, we may fafely fay, that the exiſtence ofthis fil be 
accounts for many of theſe phenomena of fionting il 


of 


* 
. «* 
1 x 


„ D E NaN ANL i 
s in the ſea; that have hitherto been held as fabnu- - 
who could have no idea of ſuch an animal. 

nen and mer- women, hold their reſidence in the Nor- 

ut but 1 cannot give credit to all that is related concern- 

y the natives. The mer-- men is about eight ſpans long. 

dtedly, has as much reſemblance as an ape has to che 

cies; a high forehead, little eyes, a flat noſe, and large 

About chin or Cars, characteriſe its head; its arms are 

; without joints or elbows, and they terminate in members 

- 2 human band, but of the paw kind, and the fin 

d by membrane: the parts of generation indicate their 

uch their under parts, which remain in the water; ter- 

te thoſe of fiſhes. The females have breaks, at which they 

> young ones. wok R | t ETD 9 | | i 

1.) Thoſe of Norway are only natural, and conſiſt of ſtu - 

mountains, dreadful caverns, waterfalls and whirlpools, 

wall, latitude 67, is that dreadful vortex, or whirlpool, 
ungators, the navel of the ſea, and by ſome Maleſtrom, 
rom. The Iſland Moſkoe, from whence this ſtream de- 
ume, lies between the mountain gen in Lofoden, 
and Ver, which are about one league di and between 
and coaſt on each ſide, the ſtream makes its way, Be 
doe and Lofoden, it is near 400 fathoms deep; but be- 
kſkoe and Ver, it is fo ſhallow, as not to. affard- paſſage ſor 
ip. When it is flood, the ſtream runs up the country be - 

Moden and Moſkae with a boiſterous rapidity; and when it 

to the fea with a violence and noiſe, unequalled bx 

| eataracts. It is heard at the diſtance of many leagues, 

a vortex or whirlpool of great depth and extent; ſo vio- 
tif a (hip comes near it, it is immediately drawn ĩrreſiſtibly 
whirl and there diſappears 3 being abſorbed and carried 
the bottom iu a moment, where it is daſhed to pieces againſt 
and juſt at the turn of ebb and flood, when the water 
fill for about a quarter of an hour, it riſes again in ſcat- 
laments, ſcarcely to be known for the parts of a hip. When 

Rated by a ſtorm, it has reached veſſels at the diſtance of 

ta Norway mile, where the crews have thought themſelv es 

d{ecurity, Perhaps it is hardly in the power of fancy to 

a ſtnation of more horror, than of being thus driven for- 

the ſudden violence of an impetuous torrent, to the vortex 

aol, of which the noiſe and turbulence Riill increaſing as 
ached, are an earneſt of quick and inevitable deſtruction; 
metched victims, in an agony of deſpair and terror, cry 

Wt help which they know to be impoſſible ; and ſee before 

freadful-abyſs, in which they are about to be plunged and 

Wag the rocks at the bottom. 22 231 TEf0% 5 

mals which have come too near the vortex, have expreſ- 

mot terror, when they find the ftream irreſiſtible, Whales 

* carried away, and the moment they feel the force of 

ite; ſtruggle againſt it with all their might, howling and 

| Oo2z 3% bellowing 


att 


. 
& 7 


* 1 | | / | 
D 2 8 N M 04 A R K. 


292: 
2 in a frightfol manner. The Ake happens 
bears, who attempt to ſwim to the iſland to prey upon d 


I is the opinion of Kircher, that the Maleſttom is a6 a 
which attracts the flood under the ſbore of Norway; and 4 5 
it againan the gulph of Bothnia 2 but this opinion iv now} * a 
be erroneous, by the return of the ſhattered fragments 's of 
happens to be ſucked down by it. The darge fee df fn 11 
riſe again ſo ſhivered and ſplintered, that the pieces looks | 
ed with briſtles... The whole phænomena ate the effeti dt or] 
lence of the daily, ebb and flood, occaſioned by the contra * 
ſtream in its courſe between the rock. * 

- People, Language, Religian, 3 The Norwegians area d 
2 Cuſton of Mar way. 5 kind of people, D, er 
plicity of the Greenlanders and Icelanders, and the mor 1 
managers of the Danes. They ſpeak the ſame language ii * 
in Denmark, but their original tongue is that of Iceland "vp 
ligion is Lutheran; and they have biſbope, as thoſe of I tr 
without temporal juriſdiction. Their viceroy, like his mak wh 
ſolute; but we may eaſily; conceive that he makes uo bub 4 
ol his power, becauſe we know of ſew or no repreſentatt 
ſurrections of the people againſt iit. L 
The Norwegians in general are ſtrong, robuſſ, and Milt 
quick in reſenting real or ſuppoſed injuries. The wotten 
ſome and courteous; and the Norwegian ſorma, both of l divil 
enjoying property, are mild, and greatly-reſembling the 
ceſtors of the preſent Engliſh. Every inhabitant is an art divi 
ſupplies his family in all its neceſſaries with his own manu 
fo that in Norway, as well as in Sweden and other North 
tries of, Europe, there are few, by profeſſion, who are hu 
makers, taylors, tanners, weavers; carpenters; ſmiths; a! n di 
The loweſt Norwegian peaſant is an artiſt and a gentleman, 
a poet. They often mix with oatmeal the bark of the fir, 
to a kind of flour z and they are reduced to very extraordis 
for ſupplying the place of bread, or | faritiaceous foods 2 : 
ners of the middling Norwegians, form à proper ſubje& mne 
plation even to a philoſopher, as they lead that kind af 
we may ſay is ſur niſned with plenty; but they are neither * ON | 
luxury, nor dreading penury ; this middle flate prolongs „ 
ſurpriſingly. Though their dreſs is accommodated 0 the weil 
yet, by cuſtom, inſtead of guarding againſt the incleme ih 
weather z they outbrave it; for they epoſe thenſelyes tor Lee 
out any coyerture upon their breaſts or neck, & Norv 
hundred years of age, is not accounted paſt his labours ant 
four couples were married, and danced before” his Hut * 
at Fredericſhall, whoſe ages when joined, excceded $00! ech 
The funeral ceremonies of the Norwegian: contain veſlige N 
former paganiſm: they play on the the violin at the head « 
fin, K while the corpſe is carried to the church, we be: 
done in a boat. In ſome places the maurners alte l % 
why he died; whether his wife and neighbours were m * 


and other ſuch queſtions; frequently kneeling down and 
givenneſs, if eyer they had offended the deceaſed- 


ES SSL TEAS. 


Þ =» & 


jy] The an 


* 
2 


=3 8 


—_ w 
= _— — 


* 


n diviſion, 


' inces. 


on the con 
" ſeparated 
theiſlands by 
eight called 
leffer Belt. 


At the en- 
da the Bal- 
a; Zealand, 
Wel, is divi- 
rom Sweden 
eight call. 
Sound, and 
AN a- 
kt. the 


flul people 


key made fre 
11 ted with thoſe of the Danes. From their be- 


diviſion, — 


D E M M An R 
% Revenue. ] By the beſt calculations, Norway can fur- 
lient ſeamen, and above 30,000 brave ſoldiers, 


Subdiviſions. 


. 
” 
= 
: 


of their kings, when a ſeparate people. Since the union of 
* which united Norway to. Denmark, their hiſtory, as well 


fs, are the ſame with that of Denmark. os 
LAPLAN DVD NORWAY, /..,' 
"0 Chief towns. 


Wardhuys, or Nor- 
wegian Lapland. 

Drontheim, and 

Bergen 


Anſlo, or Aggerhuys 


n= 


| 5 | 
DENMARK PAOT ER. 


Wardhuys, E. lon, 28, 
N. lat. 71. 
Drontheim, E. lon. - o- 
30, N, lat. 6 2 
Bergen, E. lon. 6, N. lat. 6d. 

Stavanger. | 
Aggerbuys, E. long. 11, 
| lat. 5g. Frederieſtadt 
- Anflo, or Chriſtiana. 


Subdiviſions. - Chief towns. 
Alburg — [Alburg, E. lon. 10, N. 
; lat. 5 7. 
Wyburg —— [Wyburg 
Azrhuſen —— {}Aarhuſen 
Rypen —— Rypen T 
Sleſwick — þ|Slefwick, E. lon. 9-45, N. 
| lat. 54-45* · 
Zetland —— [Copenhagen, E. lon. 13, 
N. lat. 55 306. 
| | Elſenore 
Funen — Odenſee 
Langland ——- | Rutcopping 
1 — * d 
alſten yeopp1 
Mona — | Stege 'F / 
Femeren— — | 
Alſen — Vonderberg 


3% DD EN M A RE 
d ee POT 5:00 14: 04 it LS * 
DANISH TzxxrTor es 1% GERMANY 
/ Diviſions. |. |  . Subdirifions, |  "Gltet v 
Holftcin, divided be. | Holllein Proper — | Kiely. lon. 
mon. De King]. 2 29 32, ſubje&to tl 
of Denmark, the of Holte 
Dokes of Holſtein,: e fubj, u 
mud ü the Imperial. 
Cities of Ham- Ditmarſn — 2 Hamburgb, E. 
bdurgh and Lubec, Storma— — |. N.lat ob 
6 already mentioned WK | | 
in the cirele of] - h v0 ab 
Lower Saxony, |Wagria . = | = 
Hr ICE id | ory N 


G 


— 


6 LY 


, 
* 


I and Gheltat 
| tena,ſubj. to De 

1 Lubeck, E. Ion. ig 

lat, 54-20, ln 


_ |... and Oldellova 


% * 


— 8 | 7 | en, ſuly, to the 

NS Fo | I =: 

In Weſtphalia, W. of | Oldenburg, C. |} Oldenburg, Ek 

the Weſer. {Delmonharſt ' | N.latie$466 
4 2 55 5 * mark. 


PARTICULAR 08 DENMARK Rest 
Tales and Riveri.] There are ſome lakes in Zealandand 
but ſcarce one navigable river there, till we come to f 
South Jutland, where we meet with the Eyder and the Trot 
run a ſhort courſe from Eaſt ro Weſt, and, uniting their vat 
into the German ſea below Tonnimgen.' "The river Tran 
the duchy of Holſtein, and, running Eaſt, falls into the Vi 
low Lubec. 64 


Seat] The ſeas bordering on the Daniſh territones 
German ocean, the Baltic, the Scaggerac ſea, the Sound, 
divides Zealand from Schonen, the ras Belt, which did 
and from Funen, and the Leſſer Belt; which divides Fin 
the continent of Jutland, At Elſenore, which lyes upon tae 
called the Sound, being about four miles broad, the Dane 
of all merchant-ſhips hat paſs to and from the Baltic 
Air.] As Denmark Proper is a flat country, abounding 
and moraſſes, and ſurrounded by the ſea ; they are es 
ject to fogs and bad air. 8 g 


Seil and Produce.] Zealand, the chief of the Wan 
ſeat of the government, is a barren ſoil. No. wheat will gf 
and they have but little good paſture ;, great part of it | 
and reſerved for the king's game. Funen, the Ren! x 
has barely corn ſufficient for the inhabitants» The n 
is a fruitful ſoil, and ſupplies Copenhagen with war ait 
ef Landland, Falſter, and Mona, are inaifferenei unn 


# 


br MWM MN m ww. 
i horſes and neat. cattle, which are rchaſed by the 
and grow to a odigious ſize in their fat paſtures, Slefwic, or 


u Stormar and Ditmarſh, lying near the mouth of the 
n bed to innundations. eee 
4 The ſame as in Sweden : but they have a good breed 


furs and Traffic. ] I ſhall, under this head, inelude the 
tes and manufactures imported to and exported from the 
Fr, and other timber, black cattle, horſes, butter, ſtock- 
mm, hides, train-oil, tar, pitch and iron, are the natural 
val the Daniſh dominions; and conſequently are ranked un- 
head of exports. To theſe we may add furs ; but the ex- 
n of oats is forbid, The imports falt, wine, brandy - 
from France, Portugal and Italy. Of late the Danes have 
great intereourſe wit . from whence they import 
oaths, clocks,” cabinet, lock-work, and all other manufac- 
med on in the great trading towns of England. But no- 
the commercial ſpirit of the Danes in a ſtronger light, 
ir eſtabliſhments in the Eaſt and Weſt-Indies. | | 
1612, Chriſtiern IV. of Denmark, eſtabliſhed an Eaſt- India 
un Copenhagen; and, ſoon after, four ſhips failed from 
to the Eaſt-Indies. The hint of this trade was given to his 
majeſty by James I. of England, who married a princeſs of 
k; and in 1617 they built and fortified a caſtle and town at 
bebar, on the coaſt of Coromandel. The ſecurity which many 
Iadians found under the cannon of this fort, invited numbers 
1to ſettle here; ſo that the Daniſh Eaſt-India company were 
enough to pay to their king a yearly tribute of 10,000 rix- 
The company, however, willing to become 'rich all of a 
u 1620, endeavoured to poſſeſs themſelves of the ſpice-trade 
a; but were defeated by the Portugueſe. The truth is, 
jon embroiled themſelves with the native Indians on all hands 
Lit not been for the generous afliftance given them by Mr 
Logliſh Eaſt-India governor, the ſettlement at Tranquebar 
re been taken by the Rajah of Tanjour. Upon the cloſe of 
* Europe, after the death of Charles XII. of Sweden, the 
tall India company found themſelves ſo much in debt, that 
diſhed propoſals ſor a new ſubſcription, for enlarging their 
capital ſtock, and for fitting out ſhips to Tranquebar, Ben» 
un, Two years after, his Daniſh majeſty granted a new 
Fo bis Eaſt-India company, with vaſt privileges; and for 
den commerce was carried on with great. vigour. I ſhall 
Mon, that the Danes likewiſe poſſeſs the iſlands of St Croix, 
Ms, and the Small iſlands of St John, in the Weſt-Indies z 
r free ports, and celebrated for ſmuggling ; alſo the fort of 
Wire, on the coaſt of Guinea; and carry on a conſiderable 
ſe vith the Mediterranean. | | I 


 Onfitution Gopernment and Laus] The civil confliturion 


—— — 


I _ PR — 
— - — 
K ˙ 2 


2 2 — 
— — — — — 


— — — 
* 2 _ 
— — 2 


Jon —_ — — = 
« — ww — — 


„ 2 
— 


— — 


— — — 


* 


—ññ —ůʃ— ——-̃— — — — — — — 
— 


* 


Fs 


296 e N * 4 1 * 


ef Denmark, in its preſent deſpotie Ratey"ariſes but of the 
the ariltocratic powers which the nobility exerciſe@overs 


riors with moſt intolerable tyranny. Formerly thei twill 


elective, and might be depoſed by the convention of eſtas 
included the repreſentatives of the 'peaſants.” The king 
gave him pre-eminence in the field and the courts of fue 
revenues were attached to it; and nuleſs he had a great ef 


own, he was obliged to live like a private nobleman. Ih; 


time, however, regal dignity became hereditary; or rg 


. Rates tacitly acquieſced in that mode of government, to 


horrible ravages which they had e ced from civil 
diſputed ſucceſſions. Their kings of the race of Olderhy 


' preſent royal family, though ſome of them were brave and 


princes, did not chuſe to abridge the nobility of their pows 
2 ſeries of unſucceſsful] wars rendered the nation in general 
able, that the public had not money for paying off the aray 
diſpute came to a ſhort queſtion, Which was, that the nobles 
ſubmit to taxes, from which they pleaded an exemption. 
rior people then, as uſual, threw their eyes towards the 
relief and protection from the oppreſſions of the intermedia 
of nobility : in this they were encouraged by the clergy. In 
ing of the ſlates, it was propoſed that the nobles Rhould be 
mare in the common burden. Upon this, one Otta Cracy 
people in mind that the commons were no more than n 
lords. | * 61 | 's wy J 
This was the watch-word, which had been concerted b: 


leaders of the commons, the clergy, and even the court ile 


ſon, the ſpeaker of the commons, catched hold of the term 
the aſſembly broke up in a ferment ; and the commons, 

clergy, withdrew to a houſe of their own, where they ret 
make the king a ſolemn tender of their liberties and fern 
formally to eſtabliſh in his family the hereditary ſuccellion! 
crown. This reſolution was executed the next day. The? 


Copenhagen officiated as ſpeaker for the clergy and common 


king accepted of their tender, promiſing them relieF'and pri 
The gates of Copenhagen were ſhut ; and the nobility, fe 
nerves of their power thus cut, ſubmitted with the bell gr 
could, to confirm what had been done, wig. 

It is happy for the Danes, that ever ſince the year 199 
this great revolution took place, few or no inſtances have | 
of abuſing the defpotic powers thus veſted in the Kings, m 
at preſent perhaps more extenſive than thoſe of any cm 
in Europe. On the contrary, the adminiſtration of c 
Denmark is conſidered by many as a model for other * 
ſome princes, his Pruſſian majeſty particularly, have aQtually 
great part of it. The code of the Daniſh laws id l dun 
drawn up in the language of the country, in ſo plain and f 
ous a manner, and upon fuch ſimple principles of fue 
molt ignorant may learn it; and every man may | 
cauſe: and no ſuit is to hang in ſuſpence beyond % x 
month. But the king hath privilege to explain, nn # i 
the ſame as be ſha!l think ged. ln Denmark there we 


. — 5 36. hs 
a = TY * 9 W * F \ * 5 - 
* * TR os a SQ r * 
: , 


* % ; A LA 2 "4 gt 
þE NH AK k. "Ip 
n be 7.2195; 6 B3IGK GRAN 10 H 283 $7 
ien which appeals bye. to. a, High Right court in Copen- 
| 2. che Nr aſſiſted by his chief nobility. Judges 
Shed in caſes of miſbehaviour, or corruption. Other tribu- 
” -(lituted lor the affairs of the revenue, army, commerce, 
ty, and criminal matters. In ſhort, it is allotred on all 
F that the civil policy. of Denmark, and its executive. powers, 
wonderful hes for the ſafety of the people as well az © 


#* \ 


” — 


Arbe ftile of this prince is, King of Denmark and Norway; 
. and Vandals, Duke of Sleſwir, Holſtein, Stormar, 
bath, and Earl of Qldenburgh and Delmonhurſt. 


| ' wy EN» VITALS 34 fo) uv ; 8. 

1 The, arms of Denmark are, Or, ſemee of hearts, gules, 
ans paſſant· guardant, azure, crowned, languid, and armed: 
mark. Gules, a. lion rampant, Or, erowned and armed, 
paws a battle-ax, argent, for Norway, Gules, A paſc hal 
Agent, ſupporting a flag of the ſame, marked with a croſs 
for Jutland. Or, two lions paſſant · guardant, azure, for 

Gules, a. filh crowned, argent for Iceland. Over theſe a 
bent, on the center. of which are placed the arms of Dit- 
dit. Cules, a cavalier armed argent. Gules, a nettle leaf 
ud charged in the middle with a little eſcutcheon ; the whole 
for Holſtein, Gules, a croſs, pattefitchee argent, for Ol- 

The {tield ſurrounded with à collar of the order of the 

elf. | Nen 
.] His Daniſh majeſty's revenues have tliree ſources : the 
jons he lays upon his own ſubjects ; the duties paid by. ſo- 
; and his own demeſne lands, including confiſcations. Wines 
baceo, and proviſions of all. kinds, ate moderately; taxed. 
ſes, paper, corporations, land, hotiſes, and poll-money, raiſe 
&erable ſum, Ihe expences of fortifications are borne by the 
ud when the king's daughter is married, they pay about ' 
d rixdoilars towards her portion. The reader is to.obſerve; 
internal taxes of Denmark are very uncertain, becauſe they 
aaed or raiſed at the king's will, Cuſtoms, and tolls upon 
and imports, are more certain. The tolls paid by firangers, 
ly from foreign ſhips that paſs through the Sound into the 
rough the narrow ſtrait between Schonen and the iſland of 
L Theſe tolls are in proportion to the ſize of the ſhip and 
the cargo, exhibited in bills of lading. This tax, which 
capital part of his Daniſh majeſty's revenue, has more than 
dun the Northern parts of Europe into a flame. It was 
49 puted by the Engliſh and Dutch; and the Swedes, who 
the oppoſite fide of the paſs, for ſome time, refuſed to pay 
= i the treaty of 1720, between Sweden and Denmark, un- 
Mratee of his Britannic., majeſty, George I. the Swedes 
lin the ſame rates as are paid by the ſubjects of Great 
. we Netherlands. The toll is paid at Elſenore, a town 
| 40 Sound, at the entrance oſ the Baltic ſea, and about 

wm from C openhagen. The Daves alſo claim a right 
P p 5 Lo 


3 troops; which they kept up with vaſt gare? The pete 


men; Copenhagen has a moſt capacionsſer-porty and 
always be, by a regulation, of the preſent king; thirty 


fourth are ſhip-carpenters, ſmiths, rope- mals caulk 


4 * 4 7 * EY 8 * - 
* BM. ox G l au = \ Y . 
% * af 7” . + V5 * L l | « 1 
4 * q « 3.26 a.” * „ CP N 
2 . Wen 
, 


to the toll vf the Weſer, which is paid hy a ſhine that x 
that river, except the Pruſſian flag. "The roll is paid at 


Elſenore, nor of the groſs reyerioe of Dentnark; though i 
rally thought to amount at prefent to''abont 700000. 
ſum which, in that country, goes far, and" e 

oourt, and powerful armaments both: by fea and land. 

3 4K en 00 Di ROE Di EI TS: 

Military and Marine ſtrength; J The three laſt kings ef 
notwithſtanding the degeneracy of their pegple, in man 
were very reſpectable princes, by the number and Gicipla 


Denmark, in time of peace, confiſts of 30, 000 cavalry and 
excluſive of militia; but in time of war, the regular arm) 
tered near 50 00 men. His preſent majeſty ſeems dets 
re-eſtabliſh the naval force' of his kingdom, aud te rank 
maritime power. It muſt be acknowledged that he har 
tation to ſuch a conduct; his ſubjects in general are excel 


the line in a condition to be readily” fitted ſor d brides 
tionate number of frigates, floops, c This feet tan 
be manned on any emergeney z every ſeafariug wan mul 
his life, for fix years, be ready to ſerve his king and eomt 
called upon, and-for that purpoſe is regiſtered.” The fix je 
overs no more ſerviee is required of him. The number! 
in Denmark and Norway thus regiſtered amounts to 800 
beſides which, there is always a body of 4oco-ſfailors regia 
ſudden occaſions, and im conſtant pay at Copenhagen; of 


what we call in England, dock-yard-men. "Though great 
of the regiſtered ſeamen-may, in time of peace; by then 
low from their officers, get their bread on board of merci 
and cannot therefore be preſent at a- \minute's warning, jt 
hardly ever occaſion to raiſe men by the beat of d, 
leſs ſo by the odious method of preſling, - © 


Ctders of Knighthood in Denmark.) "Theſe are two; ths 
nebrogue, which is ſaid to be of the higheſt antiquity; 4 
the elephant, which was inſtituted by Chriſtian E in bout 5 
ſon's marriage, and is conferred only on perſons of the nee I 
lity, and the molt extraordinary merit: the number of ns | 


beſides the ſovereign, ate thirty. we 15 
Perſons of the Dann] The Danes are uſually tall We 


men; with good complexions, ang fair hair, red or ye 
neither men, or women endeavour to conceal, but take 
to curl. ä * 

His Daniſh majeſty's ſubjects are reckoned at ef Wan! 
lions, which is not a number proportional to the Sen! Kor 
minions ; but it mult be obſerved that valt tracts ft 
and conſequently not inhabited: beſides, marriages 4s 


* 0 


K Anne _ 
N 9 Y% of 
=. a ee l | 
r * * * WELLES Wells 


OE L LEE MM 


women rendering ſuch carly conneaions un- 
| cha | OL bus mint Niang ne 0 ILY 
| | 02,01:417, Bag 28h; ee 
ond Geniuay] As to their habits, they 1 uninger ths 
dreſs, but n. Winter Wrap themſelves, up,an furt or wook, 
| neighbo Not many of them are happy in a bright ge- 
u invention or imitation ; neither are theq dee y learned, 


of the Daniſh 


= ®; 
s Lay $4.4 


hbours. 


kat mechanics. Their vices tog are FPG hh ther neigh- 
meoperance and drunkenneſs. The common, g f 

he poor ſpirited weiches nothing, pf the waphke enterpri 
wer of theig angeſtors remaining 3; gwen to chegting an 


4 indeed, are ,a brave, hardy people, and Raye much 
rage and yigour than the Danes, by whom they are how-- 
I uſed, fince they have been u provauce of Denmark. 


"#>_ \- 


# the bulk of the modern Engliſh.” In Tacitus's time, 


ſore, the Angli dwelt in Pomerania, 


Ppz2- upon 


Fs. dats, 3 
* 


L, «nn ont ot oy felt oi 4 Row ghds _ 
tered upon ſo ſoon as in ſome other countries, the fruit- 


common people are + 


nd excremely, jealous of being;impoled-on by others:, The 


ag 


1 


* 
** 
© <4 
* 


> — — — 
S * 


— —— — — 


— nmo—_y 
. ,  — fe amp 1 


hs — 


— — — — — 


2 ITT 


_ — 
— —— — — 
_ — — 4 — 


* 


— 23242 * 


* R 28 908 FO OT ITY 
ys a tn: 
| * | 


TI EEC SS anda 


OO 
upon rocks, that are mentioned by antiquaries and hiflori 
9 9 5 wasch be the old aud on inal manner oi 
efore the uſe df paper of an kind, and wäxen tables, wen 
Theſe characters are Runic, and ſo imperfeRly_ windericn 
learned: themſelves, that their meaning is very uncertain; 


are imagined to he biſtbrical. Stephans, in Wis fete 


ammaticus, has exhibited ſpecithEns'$ | 
Oratpwaticus, has extitbited pern re ng 


tief wil chief Buildings] Copentajibii, "hb bp g 
mar k, i Maat 00 l RT 5 en 8 


nmificent appearance at a diſtapce. It is very Wong and 
appe 2 y frrong, 


py ramparts with à cita 
U 


res | bet ON 'aftle, for the defence of it; 
contains ten pariſh phurches, beſides a very Ane bone for 


Copenhagen js adorned by ſome public, and private palaces 


_ , hagen'is its Rarbonr, which a | | 
at à tine, but is capable of containing $60,” Beveral of 


are called; and forme hoſpitals. Its ſtreets are 186 in num 


its inhabitants amount to 100, OO 1 Se Poe n c wind) 
are built of brick, and thofe m thile 


Tanes chiefly of timber, 
verſity has been already mentioned. But the chief glery' 
ais 8 Mining indeed df 607 'oke c 


have canals, and quays for ſhips to lye Cet to the Boulez 


4 
naval 8 is Rid far te exceed that bf Venice. 


The 


neſt country palace belonging td bis Daniſh mij 
about 20 Englith miles from Copenhagen,”andis allet 
1 It is a moſt magnificent;houſe, and dale in the 

ite but ill contrived; and Worſe fitugteck; being 141 


* 
- 


: 


7 
healthy it.” N of Denmark retid6;” xx they 
* 


at chis palace, they lay aſſde great part c 2 e, at 


3th their ſubjects in their diverfiotis both of the court and 
The Finig's park*eontains a royal country ſear, called ul 
tage; which is remarkable for rhediſpolition oFiten 
the quaintneſs of its furniture; particularly" machine, i 
veys the diſhes to and from the king's tape in"the feed 


The chief ecclefiaftical building in Denmark i e 


Kofchild, where the kings and queens ot Dentharrwes 


„ 


buried, and their monuments ſtill femalf., Joining ze this 


by a covered paſſage, is 4 royal palace,” Bulle WINES, 


ad Larguaze.]. The language of thy en is High Dutch, 


with that of the Germans ; but, che cbm pete un 
the ancient Teutonic: the Pater-Hoôſter whereoF worue 
tenor, Ver fador, fam er i bimmelin ;, helligt vorde Wt 2 
dit rige; vorde din villie paa jorden ſom 1 Hei; 11. 
7 brod ; og ferlad os vor ſkyld ſam vi for lade wore 0 

or belle i ſcillrelſe, men frels 0s fra ont; 1hi reget er N 


. 


herghtedi evighed. Amen. ©; ee wal 
Religion.) The religion of Denmark is the Tacke 
not differ in any reſpe&” from that of Sweden, e 


” . 4 * 


Nor do they talerate any other defominatſog f Chriſtians 
* | , , | : | i» \ 


X | B heprics.] The GUboprcy are | Copentagen Art 


4 . . — 3 i — 
— — kt —— S.. | 


= * * . 
* * . 2 — +: g 
** * F * WI 


ns 
2 * I wy 7 


"= 
* 


„ an 
yy and Sleſwie ; beſigey, which, there. are, Feral ſu- 
un, hich differ little from biſhops. we os to ohng). bog 

| JEL * | SICASDOARE Ng: ee 

e] The voiverſities arg thoſs of Copenhagen gpl Kiel, 
2 like other nations, begin to experience the, Zayun- 
r kom the encouragement of arts/apd ſcjences ; and, for 
ans paſt, the, kings have employed feveral of their ingenious 


br, and bring bome the improvewents of other nations ; 


— 


er their, young gentry i Frver for ſome mer in 
l P, Engliſh and ot n travels of Worden inta 
a nd ſome other places of the Eaſt, have furniſhed the euri- 
oer drawings and accounts of ome antiquities than they 
, fd of before his tive. His profent Dagiſd majeRy vi 


land and Frapce, that he might himſelf ſee the imprgye - 
U mauners of other _nations4, and Þe has, Jince his return 


MY | þ JO TH 

et, greatly benefited bis ſubietts in many particulars. | . 

. 5 . 5 7 * * 2 2 4: Ban : £2 wn 
ny gold ducat of Denmark N II, | 26 3G EM 3 


v * L „ 4 
}. SAN. SIA. 


1 161 LVER CGI 
e dbltar of Hacbür ak — — — 4 6 
an dollar of uber. 9947 
the ſour mark piece of Denmark rere 8 
wt , een LP 8 
e k — . — — 99990 9 
_ rc they have copper coins of ſeveral values, from a 
E 
th . 3 rated c 

„ clief hiltory of Denmark, to 2. yery extra- 
TO) phz2omenon ; 1 mean the revival of. the purity of the La» 
eee in Scandinavia, in the perſon of Sato Grammarticus, 


| (the lzth century] when it was loſt all over other parts of 

ppean continent. Saxo, like the other hiſtoriaus of his age, 
Wed, and at the ſame time ennobled by his ſtyle, the moſt 
Ws abſurdities of remote antiquity... We can, however, col- 


5 eb from him to conclude, that the ancient Danes, like the 
1 the Scots, the Iriſh, and other, Northern nations, bad their. 
et 


wo recounted the military atehievements of their heroes 3 
therr firlt hiſtories were written in verſe. Thers Ne be no, 
at the Scandinavians (the inhabitants of Nenmark, Norway, 
den) were Scythians by their original ; but how far the 
ad, called either Scythia f gr Gaul, formerly reached, is, 


— 
| Even 
| 1 — 12 41 7 FF - * * 6&7 v4 0 of ® 


ts | rin 0 FISH : XE. 44.4 : 
Mur may be underſtood all thoſe Northety countries: of Europe and Afia,” 
ited by the Danes, Nor wegians, Swedes, Ruſſians, and. Tartars; ſee 11 
ans. Ae inhabitants overturned and peopled the Roman Empire, avd: 
he as the 13th century to iſſue forth In large. bodies, and na val expedi- 
the more Southern and fertile - King#oms 8 by Sir 
pie, and other hiſtorian:, they ate termed ibe Northern Hive, the Mather: 
ir Sterebouſe: of Europe. | 4 | 


17 


mam” - 


| * 8 
5 wu * 
* — 


bs. * th 
F — wa, IS, 


POINT 
% XP 8 * 


% 5 r 

ben the name of the ficlt Chriſtian aui e 
and thoſe of the people whom they commanded were 6 
gether, that it is impoſſible for the reader to. conceive a 
of the old Scandinavian hiſtory.” This undoubtedly was 
the remains of their Scythian cuſtoms, particularly thar of 
from one country to another: and of ſeyeral nations ve foi 
together id expeditions by fea and land; and the advens 
denominated after their Chief leaders. Thus, the tum 
Saxon, Jutes or Goths, Germans, and Normans, wer 1 
ouſly uſed Tong after the time of Charlemagne.” eee 
vival of literature under chat priuce, throws very little lgl - | 
the Daniſh hiffory, All we know is, that the eee 
- dihayia, in their maritime expeditions, went generally ns 
name of Saxons with foreigners ;| that they were bold ada 
that i far back as the year of Chriſt go, they inlulted J 
/ coaſts bf Europe; that they ſettled/in Ireland; where they bi 10 
houſes; and that they became maſters of England, wan 
of Scotland, about the year 11s; both Wien kingdoms & 
prooſs of their barbarity. When we read the hien off 
and that of England, under the Daniſh princes who reg: 
both Mig ia we meet with but a faint reſemblance of 
but the Danes, as conquerors, always give eme the (ns. v. 

ty over the Engliſh.” % 3 1 mY han, + I 
In the kingdom of Denmark, very ſew intereſting eventsy * 
e year 1387, when Margaret mounted that ene we - .. 
her addreſs, and partly by hereditary * 5 ſhe formed the Gn 
Calmar; by which fhe. was acknowledged Tovereign or avec ng: \; 
mark and Norway. She held her dignity with fuck a 
courage, that ſhe was juſtly tiled the SSH A oF theNort 7 
ſucceſſors being deſtitute of her great qualibcations, the n 
Calmat fell to nothing ; but Norway Rill cohtinued"annexed 
mark. About the year 1448, crown of Denmark fell 
ſtian, Count of Oldenburg, from whom the preſent royal 
Denmark is deſcended; and in_1536 the Froteſtant religion 
Rabliſhed in Denmark, by that wiſe and polite prince Curt 
Chriſtian IV. of Denmark, iti 629; was choſen for en... 
rhe Proteſtant league, formed againſt the houſe” of Auk wu! 
though brave in his own perſon, he was in danger of lofng 
minions; when be was ſticceeded in that commatid by Wenn ;,.. 
Guftavus Adolphus, king of Sweden. "The Dutch dm lc. 
Chriſtian, who died in 1648, to lower the duties of the So 
ſon Frederic III. conſented to accept of an annuity e e e 
rins for the whole; The Dutch, after this, perſuades wn 
clare war againft Charles Guſſavus, king of enen }: .; 
almoſt coſt him his crown in 1657. Charles ſtormed the i dlizec 
Fredericſtadt; and in the ſucceeding Winter, he marchers the c 
over the ice to the ifland of Funen, where he ſurpriſed i Fr, 
troops, took Odenſee and Nyburg 3 and marched One! 4 tolle 
Belt, to beſiege Copenhagen itſelf. Cromwell ide Eng 
interpoſed, and Frederic defended his capital, withgr# 44 
mity, till the peace of Roſchild by, which, Fredenie ent 
*. 7 2 ia, the ifland of k 

vinces of Holland, Bleking, and Sconia, the” mand e 


A 
er 


v L l | L * * —* 4 
+ | 5 Ann 2: * U 
rr 9 ” * 4 


- 
— 


— b _ — - — 
— — — — — N — 
7 


— 
— — 
* 


— * . — a — 
2 2 = > 
- 2 —— — 


ah. A tk & 28 9 ** & 4 
| Nroatheimy in Norway, to the Swedes, Frederic ſought 
D but Charles took Cronenburg, 2 72 
"Copenhagen, by ſea and land, The Ready eee | 
o Frederic under theſe misfortunes, endeared him to his 
nd the citizens of Copenhagen made an admirable de- 
| Dinch fleet arrived in the Baltic, and beat the Swediſh 
b fortune of war was now entirely” changed in favour of 
L who ſhewed on every occaſion great abilities, both civib / 
bur: and havidg forced Charles to raile the ſiege. of Copen- 
kt have carried the war into. Sweden, had got the En- 
under Montague, appeared in the Baltic. This enabled 
to belege Copenhagen a third time; but France and, Eu- 
Eciny their mediation, à peace. was concluded in that capi · 
on; the iNand of Bornhotm returned to the Danes ; but 
4 of Rugen, Bleking, Halland, and Schonen, remained 
ph this peace did not reſtore to, Denmark all ſhe had loſt, 
maynanimous beHaviouf of Frederic, under the molt immi- 
igen, and his attention to the ſafety of his ſubſects, even 
E to his own, indeared him ſo much in their eyes, that they 
um abſolute, in the manner and for the reaſon I have al- 
dentoned . Frederic was ſucceeded, in 1670, by his ſon, 
v. who obliged the duke of Holſtein Gottorp to renounce 
rantages he had gained by the treaty of Roſchild. He 
red a number of places in Schonen; but his army was 
[in the bloody battle of Lunden, by Charles XI. of Sweden. 
did not put an end to the war; which Chriſtian obſtinately 
u, till he was defeated entirely at the battle of Landſcroon ; 
had almoſt exhauſted his domĩnions in his military operations, 
in a manner abandoned by all his allies, and forced to ſign 
n the terms preſcribed by ” $7599 in 1679. Chriſtian, how- 
| not defiſt from his military attempts; and at laſt he became 
and ſubſidiary of Lewis XIV. who was then threatnin 
with chains. Chriſtian, after a valt variety of treating 4%, 
mh the Holſteiners, Hamburghers, and other Northern 
wed in 1699. He was ſucceeded by Frederick IV. who, 
predeceſſors, maintained his pretenfions upon Holſtein ; and 
muſt have become maſter of that dutchy, had not the En- 
[Dutch fleets raiſed the ſiege of Tonningen ; while the young 
weden, Charles XII. who was no more than ſixteen years 
added within eight miles of Copenhagen, to aſſiſt his brother- 
the duke of Holſtein. Charles, probably, would have made 
alter of Copenhagen, had not his Daniſh majeſty agreed 
of Travendahh, which was entirely in the Duke's fa- 
another treaty concluded with the States General, Fre- 
Mzed himſelf to furnith a body of troops, who were to be 
te confederates ; and who afterwards did great ſervice a- 
& French. | | 8 4 
r this peace, Frederick was perpetually engaged in 
0 e dwedes; and while Charles was an exile at Bender, he 
rough Holſtein into Swediſh Pomerania; and in the year 
iremen, and took the city of Stade. His troops, howe- 
ver, 


--—” 


___T a7 * g*- 7 
RY ET * » As - 
i - £ o „ 


* 9 . 2 
8 re 2 ol ws he 4 . 
= Pts 


Sas... T5 7 * of 4 * d 
„dr E» NM e 
1 


ver, wete totally deſcated by the $weded af Wii 


BL” 


mie favoutite city. of Altena in altes. F 
by ſeizing great part of the dacal Holſteig, and tes. 
- diſh general, count Steinbock, to Tarrender - kind 4 
- all 8 In the year 1716, the ſusgeſſeg a Froied 
> "great, by taking Tonmſngeg and Stralfung, by driving x 
out of Norway; and reduemg Wiſmar, an Pomerana, | 
lies began to ſuſpe&t he was aiming at the ſovereiguty of 
dinavia. Upon the return of Charles Sweden tos 
he renewed the war againſt Denmark, with a molt ent 
rit ; but on the death of that prince, who-was killed 
Frederieſbal, Frederic durſt not refuſe dhe de e 
jueſty's mediation between him and the crown of weden; 
quence of which, a peace was concluded at Sede 
kim in poſſeſſion of the 4008 of Sleſwie. "Frederic & 
year 1730, after having, two years before, ſeen his capita 
to aſhes, by an accidental, fire. His ſon and eee, 
Frederic, made no other uſe of his power, and the adrant 
which he mounted the throne, than, to cultivate. 1 | 
neighbours, and to promote the happineſs of lis lubjeds; 
eaſed of many oppreſſive tales. *\ 
In 1734, after guarantying the Pragmatic Sandion t, 
ſent 6000 men to the aſſiſtance of the emperor, during il 
of the ſucceſſion to the crown of Poland, Though he v 
yet he was jealous of his rights, eſpecially over Hamb 
obliged the Hamburghers to call in the mediation of Pra 
bolifh their bank, to admit the coin of Denmark as curret 
pay him a million of filver marks, He had, two-year 4 
1738, a diſpute with his Britannic Majeſty, about the little 
of Steinhorſt, which had been mortgaged te the latter by 
of Holſtein Lawenburg, and which Cbridian ſaid belonged 
Some blood was ſpilt during the conteſt z in which Clank 
thought, never was in earneſt,” It brought on, howerer 
in which he availed himſelf of his Britannjie Majelty's pn 
for his German dominions ; for he agreed to pay. Chin 
dy of 70,000 I. ſterling a year, on condition of keeping 
neſs 5000 troops for the protection of Hanovers this was 
bargain for Denmark. And two years after, he ſeizedion 
ſhips for trading without his leave, to Iceland? but de 
Vas made up by the mediation of Sweden. Chrillian has 
a party in that, kingdom, that it was generally thought be 
vive the union of Calmar, by procuring his on dd ve « 
ceſſor to his then Swediſh majeſty. Some ſteps for that 
were certainly taken: but whatever Chriltian's wers m 
been, the deſign was fruſtrated by the jealouſy of other pon 
could not bear the thoughts of ſeeing all Scandinavia abe 
family. Chriſtian died in 1746, with the character of dei 
ther of his people. | 


\ 


+ An agreement by which the princes of Europe engaged to furpot® 
Auſtria in favour of the queen of Hungary, daughter of the cape" 
who had no male iffte, 


\ 


v E N M A K EK toy 
und ſucceſſor, Frederic V. had; in 1743, married the 
Lovifa, daughter to his Britannic majeſty, He improved 
uber plan, for the! : c 
axcepe that of a mediator, in the German war. For it 
intervention, that the treaty of Cloſter-ſeven was con- 
Liu his Royal Highneſs the lite Düke of Cumberland, 
French general Richlieu. Upon the death of his firſt queen, 


luke of Brunſwic · Wolfenbuttel ; and died in 1766. He 
eeded by his ſon Chriſſian VII. and I have already men- 
many fair proſpects which this princes reign has opened, 
* Y his people. But a late fatal event, recent to be 
ems, at preſent, to have drawn a vail over theſe plea- 
Gations ; and what the conſequence may prove, mult be 
1 the great revealer of all events. | 


= v . * 1 
1 - 


u VII. Ring of Denmark and Norway, L. L. D. and F. R. 8. was 
q: married 1766 to the princeſs Carolina Matilda of Exgland ; and has 
Prince Royal of Denmark, borg Jan. 28, 1768. | 

luguſta, Princeſs Royal, born July 7, 1771. 


4 


HITISH ISLANDS. 


EHESE iſlands, conſiſting of Great-Britain, Ireland, 
| the iſles of Wight, Scill „Man, the Hebrides, or 
lands of Scotland, and the Orcades, are ſituate in the 
ocean, between 50 and 60 degrees of North latitude, a 
North of France, and Welt of Germany and the Nether- 


| The name of Britain, according to Mr Camden, 
u from the word Brit, which, in the language of the 
Wabitants, ſignified painted or (tained ; the natives uſing 
their naked bodies, and wear no clothes over them, when 
engaged in any laborious employment or exerciſe, particu- 
uting, and in the field of battle. 


J. Great Britain being divided into South and North 
4 into the kingdoms of England and Scotland, we ſhall 
a the deſcription of England, and fix the firſt meridian at 


24 


ENGLAND. 


the happineſs of his people z_ but took no { 


nother to his preſent Daniſh majeſty, he married a daugh- 


Length 360 n * 


Climate and T 
Boundaries. 
the Southern, near 8 hours. It is bounded ans Nai 
part of the-iſland called Scotland ; pn, the Kal Ron 
cean ; on the Welt, by St, George's channel ann 
the Engliſh channel, which parts it from Frances 1 
T bis ſituation, by the ſea walking it od threw 
land liable to a great uncertainty of weather, "ww 
on the ſea- coaſts are often viſited by agues an@R—m_—_ 
hand, it prevents the extremes of heat and n_—_— 
Places, lying in the ſame degrees of latitude, ar_— 
on that account, friendly to the Tongevity of than 
neral, eſpecially thoſe who hve on a dry fo Twas 
wiſe we are to aſcribe that perpetual verdure Tor nn 
admired and envied all over the world,” occallon ns 
- ſhowers and the warm vapours of the ſea. - x 


' Name and Diviſions, ancient and modern} an | 
with regard to the etymology of the word” Has 
from a Celtic word, ſignifying a level 8 dae 
common etymology, of its being derived, TR 
tioned, from Anglen, a province-now fue tn 
which furniſhed a great part of the original San 
this iſland. In the time of the Romane, uf 
the name of B-itanzia. The word Britt, cer 
ſignified painted or ſtained; the ancient mn 
for painting their bodies: other antiquaries, Bans G1 
in this etymology, The Weſtern tract of H 
ſeparated from the reſt by the rivers” Sever and Den 
Wales, or the land of Strangers, becauſe inhabited 
Gauls, who were driven thither by the Roma and wi 
to the old natives. | | 
When the Romans provinciated England, (for thu : 
Scotland, ). they divided it into, * 
1. ber erty whieh contained the Sonthern 
kingdom. x 1 
2. Britannia Secunda, containing the Weſter ang 
hending Wales; and, 4 
3. * — Cæſarienſis, which reached from the * 
Northward as the wall of Severus, betten im 
* 


wt 


\ A 
_ 


<4 


5 $COTLAND, 


& * *. F | | | 
Haren 824A 
» rh ed N 


#3 * . 


* 


1 rene 
289 * # 


Mar Yai \ 
Bay ww, A \ * 


TJ 1 1 


' \ Writ 


—_ NG 4 By 907 
WI bactimes as far as that of Adrian in Scotland, be- 
the midland counties... | 
E 
e etabliſhed in e year 582, their chief leaders ap- 
es, after the manner of the other Northern 
© the countries which each had been the molt —_— 2 
eng; and the whole formed a heptarcky,. or politicat 
ot ſeven, kingdoms ; bur in time of war, a chief 
Wo of the ſeven kings; for which reaſon I call it a poli- 
U conſtitution greatly reſembling that of ancieat Greece. 
vr the Saxons, ufually ſliled the Saxon Heptarchy. 
. ' C 1 7 170 31% e Chief Towns. * 


Kent — 


Suſſex 
Surry 
Norfolk * 
Suffolk 
Cambridge 
With the iſte 
Cornwall 
ic | Devon 


} Sali 


Ireen ster 
| REED ET TIER [| 


Hereford ———— Hereford 
Worceſter ——— +7 , Worceſter _ 
Warwick ——— Warwick 
Leiceſter ———— | | Leiceſter 

Q_ q 2 - Kingdoms, 


| | Glouceſter 2 | Glouceſter 


4 4+ Tx 6 LY, his | : pa 
POE * N 8 2 4 N D. 
5 i .nl. 3 1. . q | 
„„ Re,, a | 
Ifen 
| T 0 £1 | Lincoln 8 K — 


J. Mercia, founded by — 
Cridda in 582, and | Oxford — 
ended in 8754. I Stafford” ! 
 contjnyed. ' || Deb, 
l 
I Noctinghaw _m en 
2 =] Cheſter” | 4 
| And the other part of | 
, Hertfard | — } | Hertford 


I have been the more ſqllicitous to preſerve thoſe diviſions, 
account for different local cuſtoms, and many very efſntial 
of inheritance, which, to this day, preyail in-England, and 
took their riſe from different inſtitutions under Saxons, 
great Alfred divided England into counties, or rather he 
joſe diviſions ; and that wiſe prince, for the better preſe 
ularity and order, ſubdivided each county inte trehings 
15 ings; wapentakes or hundreds; and. tithings. The trehi 
a third part of a county, and does ill fobk i in the large 
ol York, where, by an eaſy corruption of the word trithing, it 
- ed riding, Hundred was a diſtri containing a hundred f 
and the tithing a diſtri of ten families. 

Since the Norman conqueſt, England has been divided 
circuits, each circuit containing a certain number of count: 
Judges are appointed for each circuit, which they wißt ant 
adminiſtring juſtice to the ſubjects, who are at a dillance f 


capital. Theſe circuits and gounticg are; 
Cireuit. | Counties. cet tom: 


Effex — 1 ( Chelmsford, Colcheſter, 
a . Malden, Saffron - Walder 
ö ; Hertford — -| | Hertford, St. Albans, 


Ware, Hitchin, Halde 
| 1 © Chops-Stortford, Bert 
| : a | : e _ Barne 
- | Kent —— | |} Maidſtone, £ : 

» ag | Rocheſſer Greenwich, 


13 


| wich, Dover, , 
ed | everſham, f p 
Bo hen x * 
Home Cir- * 1 Margate,Greveletd,go 
FE". 55 — | | Southwark, Bingo = 
| A * .  Croydow "Epſom, Rig 
1 | 


"I'S © Wandſworth, Batterie 


fea 5 Worceſter 


Cambridge 


„ 


| 


Norfolk — 1 
In 


[0ron — * 


Monmouth 
Herefor d — 


Chief towns. 


. Farnham, CIOS. 


lone, and Petworth, 


- Ayleſbury, Buckin *  High- 
—— d, and r amr þ 
ord, an 
Bedford, Armpthill, Wookern, 
| 2 Luton, aud Viggleſ- 


2 d  & - Ives, Kimbet- 


Ramfey, and Vaxley. 
Cambridge, Ely, Newmarket, 
Royſton, and Wiſbich. 
Bury, Ipſwich, Sudbury, Leo- 
Roff, part of CO Ald- 
borough, Bunga wold, 
Brandon, Halefworth, b. Müde 
ball, Beccles, Franglingham, 
Stow-market, Woodbridge, La- 
venham, Hadley, Long Melford, 
Stratford, and Eaſterbergholt. 
Norwich, Thetford, Lynn, and 
Yarmouth. 


ton, Henley, Burford, Whitney, 

- Dorcheſter, Woodſtock, aad 

Tame. 

"Fake Windſor, Abingdon, 
Babor Ma Newbury, Hun- 


ton, nie Fray and Oaking ham. 


Stow, Berkley, Durſley, Leech- 
dale, Terbury: Sudbury; Wot- 
ton, and Marſhfield. 5 

| Worceſter, Eveſham, Droitwich, 


minſter, and Perſhore. 
Monmovth, Chepſtow, 2 
venny, Caerleon, and __—_ 


| Hereford, Lemſter, Weobly, 


bury, Kyneton, and Roſs. 


”. e. ; 
" | | c o . 


| Winchelſea, Battel, Brighthelm- 


odmancheſter, St Neot's, 


Oxford, Banbwry, Chippingnor- 


Maidenhead, Farring- 6 


Glouceſter, Tewkſbury, Cirenceſ- 
ter, part of Briſtol, Campden, 


Bewdley, Stourbridge, Kidder- 


% 


———— — = - 


mmm ⁵ ¹ͤm r’ —Ss 
— — _ 


Licon, Stamford, Boſtoa, 


I Wincheſter, Southampton, 


$ Saliſbury, Devizes, . 


ſter. 
Dorcheſter, Ur * 


ick, x NP 
gf rhe upon Avon, 
14 worth, Aulceſler, Ni 1 
and Atherton. 
Leiceſter, Melton-Mowbray 
| by de la Zouch, Boſwo 
Harborough,  . 
Derby, Cheſterfield, Work 
Bakewel, and Balſover. 
Nottingham, Southwell, N 
Eaſt and Weſt Redford, 
field, 'Tuxford, Workla 
Blithe. 


tham, Croyland, Spalding 
Sleaford, Great Grimſby, 


Northampton, Pet 
ventry.Higham. Termen, 


ley, Oundle, Wellingt 4 
orpſton, Towcelter, R 


ham, Kettering, and Ke 


mouth, Andover, Baſin 
Chriſtchurch, Petersfield 
mington, i 
|  Arlesford; 2 5 
mouth, and oc in l 
Wight. 


ſbury, Wikon, C 
wang Calne, Cri 
bridge, B Bradford and 


Shafi bury, F 


Bridport, W 
combe, W 


* ** %% 4 * 1 ö 311 
lb 


ads "1: Ghinfitowns: . 
4 


| Bath, Wells, Briſtol in part, Taun- 
ton, Bridgwater, Iicheſter, Mine- 
| | © head, Milbourn- Port, Glaſten- 

II bury, -Willington, Dulyerton, 
Dunſter, Watchet, Yeovil,” So- 

merton,  Axbridge, Chard; Pro- 
ton, Shepton-Mallet, Croſcomb, 
and Froome.  -” 

Exeter, Plymouth, Barnſtaple Bid- 
deford, Teerron, Dartmouth, 
Taviſtock, Topſham, Okehamp- 
ton, Aſhburton, Credeton, Moul- 
ton, Torrington, Totneſs, Ax - 
minſter, Plymton, amen 
Ilfracomb. 


| Launceſton, Falmoth, Truro; gal- 
; E — St — Padſtow, 
egony, Fowey, Penryn, Kel- 
— Leſkard, Leſtwithiels 
"Helton, Penrance,and Redroth, 


"York, Linds, Wakefield, Halifax, 
_Ripporn; Pontefract, Hull, 1 
mond, Scarborough, Borou 
bridge, Malton, Shetheld, Don- 
caſter, Whitby, Beverly, North- 
. Burlington, Knareſbo - 
h, Barneſley, Sherborn, Brad - 
for: „Tadcaſler, Skipton, Wether- 
„ Ripley, Heydon, Howden, 
hirſke, Giſbotoug, ** 
and Varum. 
Durham, Stockton, Sunderland, 
| Stanhope, Barnard Caſtle, Dar- 
lington, Hartlepool, and Awk- 
land. 
| Newcaltle, Tinmouth, North-Shields 
Morpeth, Atnwick,and Hexham, 
, | Lancaſter, Mancheſter, Preſton, Li- 


verpoole, Wi Warrington, 
| Rochdale, ury, Oralkirk, 
| Hawkſhead, and Newton. 
Weſt morel Appleby, Kendal, Lonſdale, Kirk- 
| by-Stephen, Orton, Ambleſide, 
Burton, and Milthorpe. 
Cumberland } 7 Carlifle, Penrith, Cockermouth, 
Whitehaven, Ravenglaſs, Egre- 
| mont, Keſwick, Workington, 
| and Jerby. 


Middle- 


>. E.. NG LAN o 


40 Counties, which ſend up to parliament' 


2 — yt — — — — —— 
„ 


167 Boroughs, two each - 


| Middleſex and Cheſhire are not coniprehended in dh , 


| Nag of ace n of Cheſter is j ge: tf 
ſo other juſtices in the counties palatine to determine cv 


: 
| 1 * 
| LS, II b 8 N | - E 
Circuits. Counties. 

© % - , = , . 
: 


” i 


iz 


n 0 


Counties ey / J | Hampſtead, Kenkfin 
cluſive of the q ani ney, 2 — 

; Circuits.” | * | + eſter, Nantwich, Mac 
HA 72 Malpas, Northwich, Mode 
ö ' Sandbach,Congleton, Kr 


el3; ©4751 | 1 


| Crxevirs or WALBS, | 
it... — I Flint, St Ah, and Hel 
Denbigh, Wrexham, and 
Montgomery, Llanvylic 
| Welchpool, 


' { Beaumaris, Holyhead, ar 
burg. / 
5 4 Bangor, Conway, zern. 
Pullilly. | 
| Delgelly, Bala, and Ha 
[ Radnor, Preſieon, and N. 
| | Brecknock, Built, and 
Llandaff, Cardiff, Ot 
Neath, and Swanſey. 
Pembroke I f St David's, Haverlor: 
| - | | [ broke, Tenby, Fiſcard, a 
| fordhaven. © 
Re... « T Cardigan, Aberiſtwith, 
Circnit. badarn- vawr. 
N | | Cacrmarthen, Türe, 
of, s ( very, Llandilovavr, 
- | 7 — and Lanelth Je 


mn ENGL AN 


\ 4 


25 Cities (Ely none, London four) *= 


* N G 1. A* 0 IF 


14 burge ſſes. 4 
Wyerſill - Rs B54 $131 7 4 repreſentatives; 
norts, (Haſtings, Dover, Sandwich, een. e 
Inne), Hy the, and their three de pen - 1 f 
dents; Rye, Winchelfea, and 
wo each * 's 7 


Highham Ferrars, and Mon- 
gh) cocentch: ee e Ir hh 


W XK L E 8. 

untie © id PP... 7 N ee 12 knights, b. 
jwughs 2 kk Merioneth 17 1 8 
one eac * | | rige 
6 0 T.L4. Ned 

"= 3330 knights, 

is and Boroughs - I ß durgeſſes 
Total 38 


— 


abe 52 counties into which England and Wales ate df: 
there are counties corporate, conſiſting of certain diſtricts, 
& the liberties and juriſdictions pecuhar to a county have 
ned by charter from the throne. Thus the city of Lon- 
wunty diſtinct from Middleſex ; and the cities of York, Cheſ- 
Il, Norwich, Worceſter, Kingſton upon Hull, and New- 
m Tyne, are counties of themſelves, diſtin. from thoſe 


$in Scotland, and has within its juriſdiction a ſmall” terri- 

two miles on the North fide of the river. 

ile name of a town, boroughs and cities are contained: 
borough or city is a town, though every town is not X 
> city, A borough is ſo called, becauſe it ſends up bur- 
Ierliament ; and this makes the difference between a village 
ud a borough... Some boroughs are corporate, and ſome” 
Rte; and though decayed, as Old Sarum, they (till ſend 
bo parliament, A city is'@ corporate borough, that hat 


A preſent hath, a biſhop ; for if the biſhopric is difſolved3 


re alſo counties, as before - mentioned. : 


ach county, not ſo much from the nature of the ground, 
mult be admitted to occaſion # very conſiderable altera- 
the progreſs which the inhabitants of each caunty has 


eder local improvements, whick are here carried to a 
wer degree of perfection than they are perhaps in any o- 
"the world, if we except China. To enter upon parti- 
"Ks ard proofs of theſe improvements, would require a 

Nr large 


* 


ks; (Abingdon; Banbury, Bend) * 


Seaford) C 16 barons, 


| they lie. The ſame may be faid of Berwick upon Tweed, 


My remaineth. Te have ſuburbs proveth it to be a eity. 


&, dee, and later.] The foil 6f England and Wale 


cultivation of land and garden, the draining of marſhes, * 


* 


14 E NY G. L. AN 
large volume of itſelf. Ah that cam dg ſaid therefore; 
| cha if no unkiadiy ſeafons happen, England — 

Iy ſufficient to maintain her own inhabitants but do brin 
ſums of ready money for her exports. Ihe benefit, thowe, 
thoſe exports have fometimes tempted the inbabltants tos 
of the kingdom more grain than could be conveniently jp 
have hid the poor under diſtreſs ; far which reabn exporta 
been ſometimes cheeked by government No nation in + 
exceeds England in the productions of the garden, which ! 
to ſuch perfection, that the rareſt of foreign fruits have b 
vated there, and that with ſucceſs If any farther prog 
ſhould be required, let it be remenibered, chat London, 
neighbourhood, though peopled by abbut 1,009 he inhall 
plentitully fupplied with all kinds of roots, fruits, and Riel 

from grounds within 12 miles diſtanes | 

The foil of England ſeems to particularly adapted fo 
timber, and the plantations of trees round the houſes of 
and gentlemen, and even of peaſants, are delightſulandz 
at the ſame time. Some have obſerved a decay of that oa 
which anciently formed the vaſt fleets that England put ts 
as no public complaints of that kind have been heard; it ma 
poſed that great ſlores are ſtill in reſerve ; unleſs it may be 
that our {hip-yards are partly ſupplied from Americe or the 
As te air, I can add. but - little to what I have already 
- cerning, the dimate. In many places it is certainly loaded 
pours. waſted from the Atlantic ocean by. Welterly winds, 
are ventilated by winds and ſtorms.” So that in this reſpet 
is to foreigners, and people of delicate conſtitutiona, wor 
able than unſalubrious. It cannot, however, be denied; 

England the weather. is ſo exceſſively capricions, and unla 

to certain conſtitutions, that many of. the;inbabitants are « 

fly to foreign countries, for a. renovation of their health, 
eſpecially foreigners, have attributed that remarkable fell-a 
tion of the Engliſh, which too often proceeds to adv obu 
their air and climate; but however theſe may operate, dhe 
bably lies in the people's manner of living, which is abe 
luxurious, than that of any other nation. 
The champain parts of England are generally ſapplies 
lent ſprings and ſountains, though a.difcerning-palate may 
that they commonly contain ſome mineral 4pregnauon. 
high: lying parts of the country, the inhabitants ave great 
for water, and ſupply themſelves, by trenches,.on digging 6 
The conſtitutions of the Engliſh, and the various dileales 
they are liable, have rendered them extremely inquiſitive 
brious waters, for the recovery and preſervation of their 
that England contains as many mineral wells, of known e 
perhaps any country in the world: The moſt celebrated 
baths of Bath and Briſtol, in Somerſerſhirtz and ob Bone 
byſhire ; The minerab waters of Tunbridge, Epion Du 
ton, Harrowgate, and Scarborough. Sea Water uſed 
monly as any other ſor medicinal purpoſes, ani ſo deli 
tones: of the Engliſh fibres, that the patients can pere 


- : « 


E N GW L A N D. 375 
and bathing, a difference between the fea-water of one 
and that of auother. | | PRs * M 
of tie Country and Mountains.] The induſtry of the Englith 
© been ſuch as to ſupply the abſence of thoſe favours Which 
bas þ laviſhly beſtowed upon ſome foreign climates, and in 
even to exceed them. No nation in the world can 
W cultivated parts of England in beautiful ſcenes. The va- 
of bigh-lands and low-hnds, the former gently fwelling, and 
then forming proſpects equal to the molt luxuriant imagina- 
te cora and meadow ground, the intermiatures of ĩneloſures 
tions, the noble ſeats, comfortable houſes,  chearful vil- 
ad well-Rocked farms, often riſing in the neighbourhood of 
towns and cities, decorated with the molt vivid colours of 
ve inexpreſſible. The moſt barren ſpots are not without 
«dure, but nothing can give us a higher idea of the Englith 
than by obſerving that ſome of the moſt beautiful counties 
tizodom, are naturally the molt barren, but rendered fruit- 
kbour. Upon the whole, it may be fafely aſſirmed, that no 
n Europe equals England in the beauty of its proſpects, or 
lence of its inhabitants. | : 
ved England is full of delightſul riſing graunds, and the 
aetuoting ſlopes, yet it contains few mountains. The moſt 
we the peak in Derbyſhire, the Endle in Lancaſhire, the 
bin Yorkſhire, the Cheviot-hills on the borders of Scotland, 
ern in Bucks, Malvern in Worceſterſhire, Cotſwold in 
khrlhice, the Wrekin in Stropſhire; with thoſe of Plinlimmon 
unden in Wales. In general, however, Wales, and the 
n parts, may be termed mountainous. ; 


en Later.) The rivers in England add greatly to its beau- 
nell as its opulence; the Thames, the nobleſt perhaps in the 
fies on the confluence of Glouceſterſhire, and after receiving 
wy tributary ſtreams of other rivers, it paſſes to Oxford, then 
don, Wallingford, Reading, Marlow, and Windſor. From 
2 Ningſton, where formerly it met the tide, which, ſince 
lag of Weſtminſter- bridge, is ſaid to flow no higher than 
ul; from hence it flows to London, and after dividing the 
= of Kent and Eſſex, it widens in its progreſs, till it falls 

a at the Nore, from whence it is navigable for large ſhips 
m-bridye ; but for a more particular deſcription the reader 
Wit the map. It was formerly a matter of reproach to En- 
mong foreigners, that fo capital a river ſhould have fo few 
; thoſe of London and Kingſton {which is of wood) being 
ro it had from the Nore to the laſt mentioned place, for 
. This ir convenieney was in ſome meaſure owing to the 
kd materials for building ſtone bridges; but perhaps more 
Riteſs which the Englith, in former days, had for water 
Fund the encouragement of navigation. The vaſt increaſe 
- ©umrce, and inland trade, are now multiplying bridges, 
k nk the world cannot parallel for commodicuſneſs, ar- 
*., and workmanſhip, thoſe lately ere&:d at Weſtminſter 
I. and 


k 316 E N IL A D. 
d Black- Friars, Batterſea, Putney, Kew, aud Har. 
ave now bridges likewiſe over the Thames, and others are 
ing by public4pirited proprietors of the grounds on both f 
kl he, river Medway, which F iſes near Tunbridge, falls 
mouth of the Thames at Sheerneſs, and is navigable forty 
ips as far as Chatham, where the men of war are lad u. 
| Severn, reckoned the ſecond river for importance in Engl 
the firſt for rapidity, riſes at Plinlimmon-hill, in North W 
comes navigable at Welch- pool; runs Eaſt to Shrewfhy 
turning South, viſits Bridgenorth, Worceſter, aud Ten 
where, it receives the Upper Avon; after having paſſed Gl 
| It takes a South-Weſt direction; is near its mouth increas 
Wye and Ultre, and diſcharges itſelf into the Briftol-chans 
King-road; and there the Great ſhips, Which cannot g 
| Briſtol, lye. The Trent riſes in the Moorlands of Stafi 
and running South-Eaſt, by Newcaltle-under-line, divides that 
into two parts; then turning North-Eaſt on the confines of 
ſhire, viſits Nottingham running the whole length of that et 
Lincolnſhire, and being joined by the Ouſe, and ſeveral tt 
towards the mouth, obtains the name of the Humber, fa 
the ſea South-Eaſt of Hull. | | 
The other principal rivers in England, are the Ouſe (v 
. word ſignifying water in general) which falls into th 
r, after receiving the water of many other rivers, Anat 
= in Bucks, and falls into the ſea near Lynn, in Noral 
ine runs from Weſt to Eaſt through Northumberland, and 
to the German ſea at l inmouth below Newcaſtle, The Te 
from Weſt to Eaſt, dividing Durham from Vorkſhire, and 
to the German ſea below Stockton, The Tweed runs from 
Eaſt on the borders of Scotland, and falls into the Germ 
Berwick. The Eden runs from South to North through W 
— and Cumberland, and paſſing by Carliſle, falls inte 
rich below that city. The lower Avon runs Welt throug 
ſhire to Bath, and then dividing Somerſetſhire from Glouee 
runs to Briſtol, falling into the mouth of the Severn below 
ty. The Derwent, which runs ſron Eaſt to Welt throug 
berland, and paſſing by Cockermouth, falls into the Iriſh 
tle below. The Ribble, which runs from Eaſt to Well 
Lancaſhire, and paſſing by Preſton, diſcharges itſelf into 
ſea. The Merſey, which runs from the Sowth-Ealt to the 
Weſt through Cheſhire, and then 2 Cheſhire from 
ſhire, paſſes by Liverpool, and falls into the Iriſh-ſeaa% 
that town; and the Dee riſes in Wales, and divi alt 
Cheſhire, falling into the Triſh channel below Chelktr. 
The lakes-of England are but few, though #15 fr 
ry and antiquity, and indeed in ſome places from the faq 
country, that meres and fens have been very frequent * 
till drained and converted into arable land hy induliry- 
lakes now remaining, are Soham mere, Witlelea- mere, = 
ſey mere, in the iſle of Ely, in Cambridgeſlure. All ch 
in a rainy ſeaſon are overflowed, and form a lake of n 


IS 


EN G -L- XN. D. | 317 s 
ence. Winander mere lies in Weſtmoreland, [and ſome 


4 We firſt Norman kings of England, partly for politi- 
0 ole, that they * the more effectually enſlave their new 
ud partly from the wantonneſs of power, converted im- 
ads of ground into ſoreſts, for the benefit of hunting, and 
were governed by laws peculiar to themſelves, ſo that it was 
x1, about the time of paſting the Magna Charta, to form 
150 a fort of code, called the foreſt laws ; and juſtices in eyre, 
| from their ſitting in the open air, were appointed to ſee 
Served. By degrees thoſe vaſt tracts were disforeſted, and 
bf ſorells, properly ſo called, remaining out of no fewer than 
« thoſe of Windſor, New foreſt, the foreſt of Dean, and 
d foreſt. Thoſe foreſts produced formerly great quantities 
tent oak, elm, aſh, and beech, ' beſides 'walnut-trees, poplar, 
ud other kinds of wood, In ancient times, England con- 
urge woods, if not foreſts of cheſnat-trees, which exceeded 
ter kinds of timber, for the purpoſes of building, as appears 
many great houſes ſtill ſtanding, in which the cheſnut beams 
i remain (till freſh and undecayed, though ſome of them a+ 
ſoo years old, 5 


+ and Minerals.) Among the minerals, the tin mines of 
i deſervedly take the lead. They were known to the Greeks 
Phenecians, the latter eſpecially, ſome ages before that of the 
lan acra; and ſince the Engliſh have found the method of 
lafturing their tin into plates and white iron, they are of im- 
benefit to the nation. An ore called Mundic is found in the 
un, which was very little regarded, till about 60 years ago, 
ibert Clark diſcovered the art of manufacturing it, and it is 
brought in 150,000 J. a year, and to equal in goodneſs the 
ariſh copper, yielding a proportionable quantity of lapis ca- 
ps for making braſs. Thoſe tinworks are under peculiar re- 
ks, by what are called the ſtannary laws, and the miners have 
ents and privileges of their own, which are in force at this 
The number of Corniſh miners alone are ſaid to amount to 
ks. Some gold has likewiſe been diſcovered in Cornwal, and 
ih lead is impregnated with filver. The Engliſh coined 
v particularly known by roſes, and that of Wales by that 
Gp of feathers. Devonſhire, and other counties of Eng- 
Foduce marble, but the beſt kind, which reſembles Egyptian 
* exceflively hard to work. Quarries of free-ſtone are 
many places, Northumberland and Cheſhire yield allum 
W pits. The Engliſh fullers earth is of ſach infinite conſe - 
tothe cloathing trade, that its exportation is prohibited un- 
erereſt penalties. Pit and ſea coal is found in many coun- 
Lagland, but the city of London, to encourage the nurſery 
, is chiefly ſupplied from the pits of Northumberland, and 
cot Durham, The cargoes are ſhipped at Newcaſtle 
rland, and the exportation of coals to other countries is 


We article, 
Fruits. 


1.＋a K- 2! —üßůĩäÄ——ĩ˙ ͤ — . I ]] HExEcLdMMFiMOOLIMMMECCSE mm * 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


WI , 


+ Belides apples, pears, and eherries, already mentioned 
great variety of other excellent fruits, ſuch as\'penches, ned 


lame quantity of barley annually produced here, according 


Hage fit for the table, from gardens and fields ſurrounding,| 
the diſtance of about twelve miles: a ſcareity of garden · ui 


3 E N. O Li A5 Wow 


Fit. ] Kent is famaus for its orehart's of apples ang 
but no counties afford that plenty of apples for eyder 1 1 
ſhire and Devonſhire, where that liquor has a body almol « 
white -wine. | 1 44 | | 


apricats, plums, grapes, {trawberries, raſberriet, current 
berries, &c. But I cannot fay they have that "delicious 8 
in hotter climates, eſpecially in wet years. In Eſſer and Cas 
we meet with fields of ſaffron ; and in Bedfordſhire and Buck 
woad far dying, Our kitchen gardens abound in artichoke 
colliſio wers, turnips, muſhrooms, carrots; patators, 
cabbages, peaſe, kidney-beans, Windſor-beans, and variety 
ther pulſe, ſpinnage, beets, lettice, gellary, and of late p 
broacali, and all manner of ſallading herbs : nothing can het 
the perſection to which gardening i arrived, than to kno 
Londoa, and its neig hbourhood, containing near one million 
Habi#ants, is, in general, plentifully ſupplied with all kinds 


dom experienced but by a remarkable ſevere Winter. 


Duantity of Corn produced.) It has been computed,” thats 
Hle lands, ſown with wheat in England, aunually produce 
four millions of buſhels of that grain; of which, in good 
4 are exported, and the reſt convented- into « 

ad and flour, and fpent in the kingdom. There is al 


Davenant, of which twenty-three millions of buſhels ate ca 
firſt into malt, and afterwards into ale and beer; due will 
of buſhels, made into mak, is converted into ſpirits and 
ters, and ten millions, the reſidue of the ſaid thinty-tour a 
buſhels of barley unmalted, is either made into bread, expe 
broad, or uſed for ſeed at home. And, fince Dr Davenant 
—.— of the light lands which uſed to be ſomn wi 
with barley, and, by late improvements, preduet 

crops of that grain, as the richeſt Kinds in the kingdom 
quently we have much greater quantities of barſey annua 
when the Doctor made his calculations. Of rye we have 

ſown at preſent of any kind of grain. Our lands are 400 
this grain, and the common people are too dainty uſually to 
bread made of it. Of horſe grain, ſuch as peaſe, beans, 
and oats, there are as large quantities of land down ann 
there are with wheat, rye, and barley together f fap then 
land, that is ſown one year with theſe Kinds of grams 6 
ſown with horſe-corn, and every third year-theland3ycs 

the common fields; but in the incloſed grounds, where che! 
man can dung and improve his land as he pleaſes, he has ü 


crop every year. 


Anuimali.] This kingdom affords neat «cattle, ſheep, __ | 
and ſome mules, goats, red and fallow deer, bares, 


Ew Gn Lo a” WE DE. „ 

s ferret, weuzels, Nzzards, otteys, badgers, hedges 
* rats, mice, and moles; which, being com- 
our eighbouring countries, Þ hall deſeride on theſe in 


ſuppoled to exo ll. 1 I 
a — largeſt and beſt that are to be met with any 


ur have à leſſer ſort that are bred! in Wales and the North, 
gb of theſe are as good to be ſpent in the houle' as the 


hep are to be valued for their” fleeves' and fieſh; thoſe of 
dirs are vallly large; but the fleſh of che ſmall down mut- 
wh admired ; and the woot of both exceeds any in Europe. 
+19 the number of ſheep in England, it is computed 5 a 
» than twelve millions of fleeces horn annaally which, 
gedium of erghiteen pence a fleece, makes 960,000 La nd; 
nanufactured) makes five times as much, vizr four aiflions - 


buntes for the ſaddle and chace are beautiful creatures, about 
hands high, and extremely well proportioned 7 #nd their ſpeed? 
L that it is aw ordinary thing to run twenty mifes in leſs than 
i by five or fix minutes. 3 a . ; 
lortes for draught, either for coach or waggon, are ſcarce 
ere to be paralleled; of theſe our cavalry in the army con- 
there are not better charging horſes in the world; they liave,/ 
French writer, abundance of metal, as well as their maſters. 
red of horſes, of late years, has been purticularly atteride® 
the Engliſti ; and the fineſt horſes from Aſia, Africa, Spain, 
ker places, have been importedy at great expenees, to unite 
if qualities in the Englifh breed; and indeed they are arrived 
dercellenee, that moſt of the nations of Europe are deſirous 
we fine Zngliſh hunters, particularly the French, who — 
ut numbers every year: the number exported, and the v 
x kept for the carriage and ſaddle, by people in trades (of 
the profeſſors fiſty years ago found leſs ute, being then con- 
vun the exerciſe of walking) have induced many farmers and 
to promote the breed of horſes in preference to other cattle. 
lt the nation may, on the whole, be benefited by this prac- 
$4 problem which deſerves an accurate inveſtigation : it may, 
be hereafter found, that the furniſſing our natural enemies 
eat numbers of our beſt hoyſes is impolitic and dangerous; 
Il, that the land, employed to furniſh ſubſiſtence for ſuch a 
in of horſes, would have been better uſed in the cultivation 
her the ſubſiſtence of the people. OS ha 
ume ſouls are turkeys, peacocks, poultry, geeſe, firans,. 
nd tame pigeons. The wild are, baſtards, wild geeſe, 
Ack, tea, pigeon, plover, peaſants, partridges, woodeocks, 
deal, ſnipe, wood pigeons, hawks of various kinds, black - 
raſhes, nightingales, goldfinches, linnets, larks, Ec. and 
breed great numbers of canary- birds in aviaries: 
bength, courage, and fidelity of the Englifh maſtiff. dog; 
ue courage and ſerocity of the bull- dog and game: cock, 
to be paralleled among creatures of the like kind in any 
Ave bred bull-dog will ſuffer death rather than 3 


7 


his hold, and will run at the bull even though. his ke m 

anda game=cock, of a true breed, never quits his adverge 

ie remains in either: but theſe qualities degenerate when + 
®, , tures are tranſported to other countries. 


_ Fiſh and Fiſheries.) England abounds in a great variety 
lent river 6 N ach as Ccarps, a eels, pike or jacks, þ 
trouts, perch, ſmelts, gudgeons, plaice, floundets, barbel 
R daice,. ſhad, ' mullet, 5 and breum. ae 
Ihe ſeas, produce cod-fiſh, herrings, pilchards, 
crabs, ſhrimps, and all manner of ſhell-fth; The herrings 
| Chards are exported to the BStreights in great quantities, a 
duce very valuable returns of the produce of thoße count 
Mediterranean; but the Dutch ſend abroad forty times the « 
of herrings the Engliſh do, eſpecially to Germany and the 
There is alſo a cod-fithery on the Dogger-bank, a lad 
Britain and Holland, where both the Engliſh and Ditch 
quantities of that kind of fiſh., | ? 
But the abundant fiſheries on the Engliſh coaſt being, 
'meaſure, neglected by the natives (many of whom chuſer 
be concerned in the infamous occupation of ſmugglers 3) f 
the Dutch and French fiſh on the coaſt, -and-impudently 
upper hand of the Engliſh. The greateſt part ofthe belt 5 
to the London tables, it is ſaid; comes through the hands 
Dutch fiſhermen : the herring fiſhery, on the North of Gre 
tain, has, for ages, been chiefly engroſſed by the Dutch, « 
ſtanding all that has been ſaid and written to-pirit up the 
to afſert their right, and take a trade to themſelves which p 
annually ſeveral millions ſterling to the Hollanders; and em 
an hundred thouſand tons of ſhipping, to cateh and carry bl 
the markets in Europe. Indeed about thirty years ago tome 
fpirited gentlemen formed themſelves into a company to prom 
herring fiſhery ; and fhewed they could catch and cures 
not better, than the Dutch: but, for all the encouragems 
ſcheme met with, it gradually ſubſided, and has not been 
time of the expected importance: what its faijurg can dear 
to may not be eaſy to ſhew; perhaps private views, and that 
of that parſimony aboard the Britiſh filhers, for-whieh the 
have loug been noted, may have contributed ſometiung- 


Commerce and Manufa@ures ] It is well known that eomn 
manufactures have raiſed the Engliſh to be at this day the | 
moſt powerful people in the world. It was not till the rei 
lizabeth, that England began to feel her true weight in the 
commerce. She planned ſome ſettlements in America, Virgil 
ticularly, but left the expence attending them to be defrayed 
ſubjects; and indeed ſhe was too parſimonious to carry ers 
tions of trade into execution. James I. entered upon gre# 
neficial ſchemes for the Englith' trade. The Eaſt-Indu & 
owes to him their ſucceſs and exiſtence, and the Britin 
ſaw her moſt flouriſhing colonics riſe under him and his famil 
ſpirit of commerce went hand in hand with that of N 


— 


- 


len of Fogim polities muy” proper}y be td ro 
e ; of Queen Elifabeth. At hie time th 

bat reſgion was cablithe Which naturally 'allied us to the 
1 a lutes, and made all the Popiſh powers our” enemies. 9 


Ken; and, if not to incommode and obſtruck their traffic, 

ten from impairing butt. 
len likewiſe ſettled colonies in America, Which was become 
is bene of European ambition; for, ſeeing "With what tres“ 
& Spaniards were annually enriched from Mexico and Peru, 
Won imagined, that an America” conqueſt or plantation 
ertzinly 61] the mother country with gold and filver..” 
licoreries of new regions, Which were then every day made, 
& of remote traffic, and the neceffity of long voyages, pro- 
Ua few years, a great multiplication of ſhipping. The ſe 
Wirted as the wealthy element; and, by degrees, à u 
breteignty aroſe, called nayal dominion. . Wm 
Þ thief trade of Europe, ſb. che chief maritime power was at 
the hands of the 11 = and Spaniards, who,” by a toni» 
which the conſent of other princes Was not aſked, had di- 
& newly diſcovered countries between them; but the crown 
il having fallen to the king of Spain, or being ſeized by 
ws maſter of the ſhips of the two nations, with which he 
the coaſts of Europe in alarm, till the Armada, be had 
Erna expence for the conqueſt of "England, was deſtroy- 
10 * a ſtop, and almoſt an end, to the naval power of 


W time the Dutch, who were oppreſſed by the Spaniards, 


* infolence of their maſters 3 they therefore revolted ; àn 

ogle, in which they were aſſiſted by the money and forces 
kh, ereted an independent and powerful common- wealth. 
de inhabitants of the Low Countries had formed their fy 
Merament, and ſome remiſſion of the war gave then leiſure 
Khemes of future proſperity, they eaſily perceived that, as 
res were narrow, and their numbers ſmall, they could 
ltemſelves only by that power, which is the conſequence of 
ud that by a people whoſe country produced only the ne- 
life, wealch was not to be acquired but from foreign do- 
ud by the tranſportation of the products of one country 


ki zecefſty, thus juſtly eflimated, aroſe a plan of com. 
wp Ach was for many years proſecuted” with an induſtry and 


rd: never ſ-en in the world before; ard by which the 
ts of mud-walled villages and impaſſable bogs, erected 


FP Ve dreaded by the fiercelt nations. By the eſtabliſh» 
81 


1 G N A N A WW 


in the ſame reigu to extend our trade, by which it be- 
ali far us alſo to Watch the comrnebcial progreſs of N 


[yet greater evils than they felt, reſolved no longer to en 


* ito high and mighty ſtates, who ſet the greateſt mo- 
farce, whoſe alliance was courted by the proudeſt, and 


went 


— — — r ˙ ˙ Ä ˙ V ¹w-w 
— — 
_ — — — — — 


- 
* $4 
8 * . EY 4 . * p - * 
a”) _ OT p q a n 9b J R * _— 4.4.4 - 8 2 
— — . ˙¹-AwA  - e OO Oo” O——— NO — — — — — — - — _ 
— — 
= — = 


- od _—_ —_— . ——_— _ — 
— 
— — — = 
_ 2 


= 
- 
3 __— * - 1 
— — — — — — — — — 
— — 


= —— 
— 7 


_ ts N 
D— — 


= 
— . 
1 * * o 
— eeU—Uä— — — — — em —— — — 
— — — K ey _ 
— — — _ — — 5 — — 


* 
—_— 


— — — — — mn — — 


pw =: N . +: a 
At this time, which ſeems. to he the. period deſlined fort 
of the face of Europe, France J Tile 44 0 
from defending her ,own provinces. with "difficulty 3 
| ſuccels, to threaten her neighbours with incroachments and 
tions. Henry IV. having, after a Io ſtruggle, ob; 
crown, found it caſy to govern aulled and we; 
| Tong civil war; and having compoſed the diſputes between} 
teltants and Papilts, ſo as to obtain, at leaſt, a trace for 
ties, was at leiſure to accumulate- treafure, and rai fore 
He propoſed to have employed in a defign of ſettling for eve 
lance of Europe. Of this great ſcheme he lived not.to ſee 
15 or feel the diſappointment ; for he was murdered in the 
is mighty preparations. , |, & 
The French, however, were in this reign. tavght to 
own power ; and the great deſigns, of a Bo 8 wil 
had ſo long experienced, even though. they were not brong 
. tual experiment, diſpoſed them to conſider themiclves as « 
the deſtiny of their neighbours; aud from that time, he 
nicely examine their ſchemes and EonduR, will find that th 
to take an air of ſuperiority, to which they had never prete 
fore; and that they have been always employed more or |: 
ly,, upon ſchemes of dominion, though with frequent iate 


* 
Pa 7 


om domeſtic troubles. 1 2 
When Queen Eliſabeth entered upon the government, the 
d only 36,000 |. a year ; at the reſtoration, they we 

arm for 400,0001. and produced conſiderably. above dot 
ſam before the revolution. The people of London, beforg 
any plantations, and but very little trade, were computed 

100,000 ; at the death of Queen, Eliſabeth, they were wu 
1 50,000, and are now above fix times that number, In tn 
we had not only our naval ſtores, but our ſhips from our net 
Germany furniſhed us with all things made of metal, even 
wine, paper, linen, and a thouſand other things came from 
Portugal furniſhed us with ſugars ; all the produce of Ame 
poured upon us from Spain; and the Venetians and Genoe 
ed to us the commodities of the Eaſt- Indies at their own Þ 
ſhort, the legal intereſt of money was 12 per cent. and the 
price of our land ten or twelve years purchaſe, We may: 
our manufactures were few, and-thoſe but indifferent; the 
of Engliſh merchants very ſmall, and our thipping much 
to what now belong to our American colonies. 

Such was the ſtate of our trade when this great princeſs 
the throne z/ but as we have already obſerved, the limits 0 
dertaking do not permit us to give a detail of the gradus 
of commerce ſince that reign, we flatter ourleives my 
reader will not be diſpleaſed with the following ew os 
five trade, at preſent carried on through the varou ws 

lobe. | 7 ®, READY . 

8 Great Britain is, of all other countries, the moltprop® J 
as well from its ſituation, as an iſland, as from theres 


, STO PTESSTY 


HEE A N 
— and from its naturaf products, and con- 
For efportation: * ou Soνε produces 


batte d 4 neceſſary cotitnodities, as 
— wi —— lead, * 3 ther 
gr 


dem ſaffron; Ol. Our torn foche 
« from Rafvirg:® Our horſes are che moſt 1 £ 
1nd highly valued by all nations, for their _ 
** frength; © With" beef,” mutton, ' pork, pbultry, biſctit; 
y tor only dur own fleets,” but many foreigners” that come 
Our iron we export manufactured in great guns, carcaſes, 
4 Frodigious, and almoſt incredible, is the value like - 
gher goods from henee exported 3 v. "hops, Max; hemp 
ws bouſtold-ſtuff, ale; beer, red-herrings,' pifehiards, — | 
gets, ſaffron, quorice,” watches, ribbandey"toys, Se. 
ſei ſearte'n manufacture in Europe, but What is brought to 
eon in England ; and” therefore it is perfectly unneceſ-· 
ſunberate them all. The woollert dnanwfücture is the moſt 
and exceeds in goodneſs and quantity that of any o- 
n. Hard-ware is another capital article; Jocks, edge- 
ji, (words, and other arme, exceed any thing of the kind 
tenſits of braſs, iron, and pewter, alſo are very great ar · 
r clocks and watches are in very t eſteem. There 
fey manufaQures we are defective in. In thoſe of face and 
r do not ſeem to excel; but we import much more than w 
Ide duty on Britiſh paper were taken off. As to forei 
the woollen manufaQure 1 s Mill the e great foundation and Tap 
i 
Artem edlonies il the objedts that naturally-firſt * * 
s for our diſcuſſion, and they may be divided two claſ- 
tpoſeſions on the Continent, and thoſe in the aun which 
br the name of the Weſt» Indies. 
Una the Engliſh poſſeſſions in North-A.niorſes; and the 
* tollowing colonies, viz. Hudfon's Bay, Labrador, New 
d, Canada, Nova-Scotia, New-England, 28 Maſ- 
7 1 Rhode: iſland, e —. and -Hampſhire, 
Y one colony, and thon en under ſeparate juriſdidtions, 
| conſidered /as ſuch ;) New-York; New-Jerſey, Pealylvania, 
nd Maryland, North Carolina; South-Carolina; Georgia, 
| Welt Florida. The: chief commodities exported ' from 
Min to thoſe colonies, are Wrought iron, ſteel; copper, 
kad, — braſs, cordage, hemp, ſail cloth, ſhip-chandlery, 
„ millinery, haberdaſhery, 22 hats, 
das, * flannels, Colcheſtes bays, long ell filks, gold 
lace, Mancheſter goods, Britiſh, forei and Iriſh linens, 
wes, prind-ſoties, Birmingham and 8 d wares, toys, 
abinet wares, ſeeds, Cheeſe, ſtrong beer, ſmoaking pipes, 
mes, ſpirits, and drugs, Eaſt-India goods,” books, paper, 
+ many other articles, according to the different 
8 of the different eolohies, 1 to be enu· 


| olities exported from America to Great Britain, and | 
= ws tobacco, rice, flour, biſcuit, wheat, beans, peas, 
8 42 oats, 


ities of cody, wag 
rs of wild beaſſe, ſuch, as 
ED borſes, and live flocks tin” timber plank 
ds, ſlaves, tary and turpentine; (bip 
3 flax, flax · ſeed, and, c indigo, pot ah, bers, 
„5 e ee and iron in baus and in pigtf desde 
commodities, Ken's to the climes and foil of differen w 
2 to thoſe, which, have been acquired by the las gene 
ey are Hank 5 very improvable,, nor can we ſoum ay 
al them, in their preſent infantius unſettled fare, r 
within my deſign, nor indeed dos it fall within my ſubjed, 
an account af the war ſubſiſſing between thoſe po ark 
mother country. It is ſufficienn if Iexhibite a Nate of the 
8 880 them, as it exiſled when the differences firſt took 
data the ſame NR. the commereial ſtrength and ſhip 


„% 1 TS 4% £4 oY 4 ”, vnB06% it 23% 
% o : 


7g Br gc, 
4 92 FX "I * f 1. LD» | * 4 + „ 'Y 4 * 4 — «| 
” = 
5 Ge, | bios Sams Erbe from. | 
* o \ 4 © 0 
re rl t Britain. the ( 
L. 160% 
- TX G 
"0004 64 nenne 


38 2 "$7346" 
34 4 beg 


N icy 6 72 55 26,500 
41 0 528 . 395,000 
3 10 „ 12,000 
ar ene 
2 23 9 en | 
34> $427 29 11;008 * 


e N "Bip * 
lorth ale: W $411 e 158000 
uth Carolina 140 Wo + "x 365.000 
or 5 14 = II. 5 
„ 
Vit iv At 1441 eee 1s, 974008 | 


. — . 


— | | 
1,078-/; "UN of: Ans. 


| The principat-iands belonging to the Bugliſh1.jo the 
_ flies, are Jamaica, a 5. Cid, 
tigua, Mantſerrat, Dominica, St Vincent, Barbadogs, To 
Granada, and the Grenadines, or Grenadillos alſo the h 
pr Summer iſlands ; the Bahama, or Lucayan Allands i 
lantic ocean. Of theſe, Dominica, St Vincent, 1 
_ Dada, were ceded by France to e 2 
Pen ok 1763 900 


"axe ofna+ 


there by the late peace, which, When fully pegpled, muſt 
un ſenſible influence upon the farmer ſyſtem of commerce 
j parts, as I ſhall have occafion to obſerve in its proper place. 
made of England to the Ealt-Indies. conſtitutes one df the 
lapendous, political, as well as cammercial machines, that is 


wet vich in hiſtory. The trade itſelf is excluſive; and lodged 
papaty, which has a temporary monopoly of it, in confide- 
a money advanced to the government. Without entering 
& hiſtory of the Eaſt India trade, within theſe. twenty years 
pd the company's concerns in that country, it is ſufficient: to 
lun beſides their ſettlements on the coaſt of India, which they 
nder proper reſtrictions, by act of parliament, they have, 
ſi the various internal revolutions ich have happened at In- 
acquired ſuch territorial poſſeſſions, as renders them the moſt 
8 e commercial republic (for ſa it may be called in its pre ſent 
) that has been known in the world, ſinee the demolition of 
* Their revenues are only known, and that but imper- 
bithe directors of the company, who are chaſen annually by 
Meters of the Rock, but it has heen conjectured that they a- 
mually to abave three millions and a Renling; The: ex- 
be company in forts, fleets, and armies, ſor maintaining thoſe 
a are certainly very great; but after theſe arc defrayed, the 
wtonly clears a vaſt ſum, but is able to pay tothe government 
|. yearly, ſor a certain time, partly. by way of indemnifs 
tte expences of the public in protecting the company, and 
Aut tribate for thoſe poſſeſſions that are territorial and 
Mercial, This republic therefore cannot be ſaid to be inde 
nd i is hard to ſay what farm it may take when tho term 

an with the government is expired, g- 
Wavy exports to the Eaſt - Indies all kinds of woollen 
Mann 


RES ES. 
manufacture, all ſorts of hard-ware, lend, Bulhehp ub g 
Their imports'conſift of gold, diainende rawlillk; drws. 
per, arrack} porcelain,” or! china ware,” faltperrs fn 
_ famption; and of wrought ſilks, uffn, calliees ewe 
3 of India, for exportation fries. 
1 ſhall now proceed to a conciſe view of the Eügiit ug 
countries, 'accordirig to rhe lateſt, and toſt authehtie wu 
To Turkey England ſends, in her on böten woe 
tin, * and dg hard ware; "orr-utenſils;" clocks,” wait 
degris, ſpices, cochineal, and jogwodd. She" imports 
raw-ſilts, carpets,” ſkins, dying drugs, Sen | 
drugs, coffee, and ſome other articles” Former the hut 
this trade was about 500, b l. atinually; in favour of b. 
The Engliſh erade was afterwards Hmimifbed through they 
of the French: but the Turkey trade at preſent i very 
with the French as well as the Enpliſtic” It is to be resume 
_- Ruffians are ſuffered to drive the Turks out'of Europe, that 
Britain will ſecure to Herfelf a port in one of the miner 
Hands of the Levant. f Wee oF e910 Pp: MA 117 
- England'exports to Italy, woolen! gobds of warten tint 
try, leather, lead, tin, fiſh, arid'Eaft India"goods und bez 
raw and thrown-ſilk; wines, oil, ſoap} olives, oranges; lemon 
granates, dried, fruits, colours, anchovies, and otherdarticks 
ury; che balance of this trade in favour of E ba 
about 200,000 1.' 2 07 EOUSIAY 205405 HEROES | 
To Spain, *England fends all kinds of woollen gods, leatl 
lead, ' fiſh, corn, iron, and braſs manufactures ; haberdaſhery 
aſſortments of linen from Germany, *and elſewhere; for her 
rican' colonies: and receives in return, wines, Oils, dried 
es, lemons, olives, wool; indico, cochinea angothe 
drugs, 'colours;' gold and filver coin, 
"Y ; till 'of late, was, upon commercial accounts, 
vourite ally of England, whoſe fleets*and armies have ac 
once ſaved her from deſtruction. Of late her miniſtry have e 
their ſyſtemꝭ and have fallen in with the views of the houſe d 
bon. They have eſtabliſhed courts} which are inconfiltent 
treaties between Portugal and England, and defraud” the 
merchants' of great parts of their capitals; "which they Kd it 
fible to recover. They have like wiſe erected two Brazil com 
the one for Marenham, and Gran Pata the other for Feta 
greatly to the detriment of the Engliſh rights. Before the 
underſtandings happened, the Engfith trade to Portugal ves 
beneficial for both nations. England ſent to that country al 
fame kind of merchandizes as to Spain, and they receivedn 
vaſt quantities of wines, with oils, ſalt, dried and moill ' 
ing drugs and gold coins”! 1 1111199 IO 
- To France, England ſends much tobacco; lead, th 
horns, and ſometimes corn; and always much money'® 
run; and brings home, in a ſmuggling way} a much gre 
in wines, brandies, linen, cambrics, lace, velvets, and um 
prone fopperies, and brocades; always very corn 
ngland's diſadvantage. But as there is go | 


- * - = „ 
4 . a x4 


* 


U 


, . 


ei pen. To Cermanys, Exgland nds cloths ag 
i peter, ſugars, tobacco, and Ealt India merchandise ; and 
hence vaſt quantities of linen, thread, goat-ſkins,. tinned 


the - G 
| * prejudice of. England, but that ſu m is now great- 


ps thoroughly refined to the laſt Rage of that manufacture, 
| does in large quantities. The exports from Great Britain 
eo, manufactured in all its ſpecies, is greater to Poland. than 
5 other country. It. conſumes alſo. large quantities of our 
A goods, hard-ware, malt · liquors, pimento, / ginger, pepper, 
ke, leather, lead, tin, ſalt, ſea- coal, &c, and would take 
quantities of tea, if that trade were free; and large quantities 
ud herring, from Scotland, if that fiſhery Nous ed. | ; 
Bolland, England ſends an immenſe, quantity of many forts 
kehandiſe ; ſuch as all kinds of woollen goods, hides, corn, 
Hal- India and Turkey merchandiſe, tobacco, tar, ſugar, 
Peer, and other American productions; and makes returns 
en, lace, cambrics, thread, tapes, incle, madder, boards, 
wlle- bone, train oil, toys, and many ather . and 1 
Mice is uſually ſuppoſed to be much in favour of England. I © | 

err to mention the trade between England and Ireland, till 1 
o eat of the latter kingdom. 8 80 1 
xquilitions which the Engliſh have made upon the coalt of = 
6 particularly their ſettlement at Senegal, have opened new 4 
bd commerce with Africa. The French, when in poſſeſſion if 
. traded there for gold, flaves, hides, oſtrich feathers, 
nillet, arnbergris, and, above all, for that uſeful com- 
hn Senegal, which was monopolized by them and the 
A preſent 1:ngland ſends to the coaſt of Guinea, ſundry 
rk woollen, and linen, iron, pewter, braſs and hard- 
darfadures, lead-thot, ſwords, knives, fire- arms, gunpow- 
cas manufactures. And, beſides its drawing no money out 
Wn, it ſupplies her American colonies with negroe faves, 
amounting 


4H 4 K & by | 
328 R TL © HS 
amotinting in number to above 160,060 a 716 
turns are in gold-duſt, gum, dying and thee drugs, 
Guten grains, and ier. BY 
To Arabia, Perſia, China and other parts or 
ſends much ſoreign-filver ebin and bullion, und fun 
nufactures of woollen-go 


9 


home from thoſe remote regions, muſlins and epttom of 
rious kinds, callicoes, ray and wrought fk, chints; 
lain, gold-duſt, coffee, ſaſtpetre, and many other drug. 
great à quantity of thoſe various merchandiſe are rep r! 
reign European nations, as more than abun omper 
all the ſilyer bullion which England carries out. 
1 Duriug the infancy of comtnerce with foreigh parts, kn 
_ -- expedient to grant excluſive charters to particular bodies i 
. _ rations of men; hence the Eaſt. India, South-Bea, Hud 
Turkey, Ruſſia, and Royal African companies ; but the 
Turkey, Ruſſia, and Africa, is now laid open, though 
chant who propoſes to trade thither, ouſt become à mem 
company, be ſubject to their laws and regulations, and a 
= 32 — for the purpoſes of ſupporting 
KO OA 3 
With regard to the general account of England's foreign 
the exports have been computed at ſeven millions ſtetling, 
imports at five, of which above one million is re- ported 
if this calculation is true, England gains, annually,” three 
ſterling in trade; but this is a point upon Which the molt e 
ced merchants, and ableſt calculators differ. Aſter all that 
faid, it muſt be acknowledged, that many exceptions lie to 
lar eſtimates. The vaſt improvements at home, in iron, fi 
and other manufactures,” and the” growing imports from! 
muſt greatly diminiſh the Engliſh imports from abroad. 0 
ther hand, ſome of the other European nations are making 
efforts for rivalling the Engliſh manufactures. With wh 
they may be attended, time alone can determine; but bit 
appearances on their ſide are not very promiſing; 
vet our foreign trade does not amount to one fixth. part « 
land; the annual produce of the natufal products aud mant 
of England amounting to above forty-rwo millions. The | 
filver of England is received from Portugal, Spain, Jai 
American colonies, and Africa; but great part of this gold 
ver we again export to Holland, and the Eaſt- Indies; and 
poſed that two-thirds of all the foreign traffic of England 
on in'the port of London. | 


godds,' and of lead, iron and bg 4 


We ſhall conclude this account of our trade, with the 
comparative view of ſhipping, which, till a better table cal 
ed, may have its uſes. * | 

If the ſhipping of Europe be divided into twenty parth, * 
Great Britain, &c. is computed to have 
The United Provindes — 3 
Denmark, Sweden and Ruſſia — = 7 
The trading cities of Germany, and the Auſtrian 
France — E 4 „ 


* 


EN G L A N D. N 319 
Aud Portugal — — — — = 2 


the reſt of Europe — — 


o 


bg ents), B 
4 m—_ not afford room to enter into a particular detail 
« where thoſe Engliſh manufactures, which are mention- 
thore account, are fabricated ; a few general ſtrictures, 
1 may be proper. fog 
Hand Devonſhire ſupply tin and lead, and woollen manu- 
ur common to almoſt all the Weſtern counties. Dorſet- 
nugadtures cordage for the navy, feeds an incredible num- 
den and has large lace manufactures, Somerſetſhire, be- 
ling lead, copper, and lapis calaminaris, has large ma- 
«of bone lace, ſtockings, and caps. Briſtol, which is both 
{county, is ſaid by ſome to employ 2000 maritime veſſels 
is, coalters, as well as ſhips employed in foreign voyages: 
yay very important manufactures; its glaſs- bottle and drink 
ane alone occupying fifteen large houſes: its braſs- wire 
tures are alſo very conſiderable. Vaſt manufactures of all 
5, jewelery, clocks, watches, and cutlery, in particular) 
ted on in London and its neighbourhood; the gold and ſil- 
whadures of London, through the encouragement given 
the court and the nobility, already equal, if they do not 
thoſe of any country in Europe. Colcheſter is famous for 
ſafures of bays and ſerges 3 and Norwich for its excellent 
unblets, druggets, and ſtockings. Birmingham, though 
ration, is one of the largeſt and moſt populous towns in 
ud carries on an amazing trade, in excellent ingenuous 
we manufactures, particularly ſnuff and tobacco-boxes, but- 
* buckles, etwees, ,and many other ſorts of ſteel] and braſs- 
tis here, and in Sheffield, which is famous for cutlery, 
me genius of Engliſh art and induſtry, is to be ſeen ; for 
lteir excellent inventions for fabricating hard; wares, that 
afford them for the fourth part of the price at which other 
as furnith the ſame or an inferior kind: the cheapneſs of 
ud all neceſſaries, and the conveniency of ſituation, no 
Ontribute greatly to this. 
dern counties of England carry on a prodigious trade in 
* and lighter woollen manufactures ; witneſs thoſe of Hal- 
eds, Wakefield, and Richmond; and above all, Mancheſ- 
Wa, by its variety of beautiful cottons, dimities, tickens, 
ud the like {tuffs, is become a large and populous place, 
ts only a village, and its higheſt magiſtrate a conſtable. 
b dention Coventry, Nottingham, Leiceſter, Derby, Ken- 
wy other manufacturing towns and places of England, 
wich is noted for ſome particular coramodity, but the de- 
i become too bulky. I muſt not, however, diſmiſs this 
Mat obſerving the beautiful porcelaine and earthen ware 
of ae years been manufactured in different places of En- 
Micularly in Worceſterſhire and Staffordſhire. The En- 
% particularly thoſe of Wilton and Kidderminſter, tho” 
anufature, greatly exceed in beauty any imported from 
E are extremely durable; and conſequently, is a_valt 
nation. Paper, which, till very lately, was imported 
8 in 


* ** 


in vaſt quantities from France and Holland, is de may 
corner ot the * and is a molt neceſfary as well 8 
manufacture. The parliament, of late, has given enc 
for reviving the manufacture of ſalt-petre, which was fir; 
zn Englanq by Sir Walter Raleigh, but was dropt lers 
vour of the Eaſt-India company: the ſucceſs of ſuch l 
would be #f immenſe benefit, as well as Iccuriey to the naw 
After all that has been ſaid on this head, the ſeats of » 
tures, and conſequently of trade, in England, are flnduar 
will always follow thoſe places where living is cheap, and 
eaſy : for this reaſon, they have been oblerved of late to 
wards the Northern counties, where proviſions are in pler 
the land-tax very low; add to this, that probably, in a ſe 
the inland navigations which are bs. in many parts of 
will make vaſt alterations as to its internal ate. ©. 
Many fenfidle but ſpeculative Engliſhmen,” daily exprek f 
prehenfions, leſt the weight of taxes and dearneſs of living 
gland, ſhould enable other nations to ruin the Engliſh trad 


Ty reign markets, by underworking them. This objedion is4 


ſtanding, and would have great weight, did not experience; 
it is not founded in fact. An Engliſh workman, it is un 
much bete than a foreigner, but then he will do doubl 
triple the work, in the ſame time; and other nations are tax 
ly as well as England. We 


A ſhort view of the STOCKS, or public fundt in England, with 


rical account of the Eaft-India, the Bank, and South-Sea c 


As there are few ſubjects of converſation more general 
value of ſtocks, and hardly any thing fo little underſtood 
can be more uſeful than a hort account of them, which wet 
give in as clear and conciſe a manner as pothblez preſer 
readers with the rationale of the ſtocks, and a ſhort hitte 
ſeveral companies, deſcribing the nature of their ſeparate | 
uſes to which they are applied, and the various purpoſes the 
both with reſpect to the government, the companies then 
the community in general. 12 ö 

In order to give a clear idea of the money tranſactiont 
veral companies, it is proper we ſhould ſay ſomething of 
general, and particularly of paper-money, and the ai 
tween that and the current ſpecie. Money'is the ſtandard 
lue of all the neceſſaries and accommodations of life, al 
money is the repreſentative of that ſtandard to ſuch a deg 
ſupply its place, and to anſwer all the purpoſes of gold and i 
Nothing is neceſſary to make this repreſentative of money 

place of ſpecie, but the credit of that office or company, 
vers it; which credit conſiſts in its always being ready to! 
to ſpecie whenever required. This is exactly the caſe oft 
England; the notes of this company are of the ſame" 
current coin, as they may be turned into it whenever th 
pleaſes. From hence, as notes are a kind of money, * 
feiting them is puniſhed with death, as well as commyg: 


% 


- 


Sn '6 - 1-4 8 331 
fiting money in the bank, and exchanging it 
rakrhes byte intereſt) is attended with — 
4; a5 they are not only ſafer than money in the bands of 
himſelf ; but as the notes are more portable, and capable 
more eaſy conveyance ; fince-a bank note for a very large 
an be ſent by the poſt, and to prevent the deſigns of robbers, 
bout damage, de cut in two, and ſent at two ſeveral times. 
called bank poſt-bills, may be had by application at the 
hich are particularly calculated to prevent loſſes by robbe - 
they being made payable to the order of the perſon who takes 
wt, at a certain number of days after fight ; which gives an 
wity to top bills at the bank, if they ſhould be loft, and pre- 
their being ſo eaſily negociated by ſtrangers as common bank 
me: and whoever confiders the hazard, the expence and trou- 
Wre would be in ſending large ſums of gold and filver to and 
gut places, muſt alſo confider this as a very ſingular ad- 
Beſides which, another benefit attends them; for if they 
bored by time, or other accident, the bank will, on oath be- 
ue of ſuch accident, and ſecurity being given, pay the mo- 
the perſon who was in poſſeſſion of them. 
notes differ from all kinds of ſtock in theſe three particulars ; 
are always of the ſame value. 2. They are paid off with- 
no transferred ; and, 3. they bear no intereſt; while ſtocks 
ture in a company's funds, bought without any condition of 
(the principal returned. India bonds indeed (by ſome per- 
though erroneouſly, denominated Rock) are to be excepted, 
king made payable at ix months notice, either on the ſide of 
any or of the pofſefſor. 
the word STocx was originally meant, a particular ſum of 
contributed to the eftabliſhing a fund to enable a company to 
in a certain trade, by means of which the perſon became a 
in that trade, and received a ſhare in the profit made there- 
proportion to the money employed. But this term has been 
kd farther, though improperly, to ſignify any ſam of money 
u been lent to the government, on condition of receiving a 
intereſt till the money is repaid, and which makes a part of 
nal debt, As the ſecurity both of the government and of 
vic companies is eſteemed preferable to that of any private 
u the ſtocks are negotiable and may be ſold at any time, 
the intereſt is always punctually paid when due, ſo they are 
enabled to borrow money on a lower intereſt than what 
eodtained from lending it to private perſons, where there 
ſome danger of loſing both principal and intereſt. 
every capital ſtock or fund of a company is raiſed for a 
Er purpoſe, and limited by parliament to a certain ſum, it 
Ml follows, that when that fund is compleated, no ſtock can 
pot the company; though ſhares already purchaſed, may 
Ane from one perſon to another. This being the caſe, 
Bitquently a great diſproportion between the original value 
and what is given for them when transferred; for if 
© More buyers than ſellers, a perſon who 1s indifferent abour. 
Wl rot part with his ſhare without a conſiderable profit to 
T tz himfell 


— 


332 E N G L Rm. 


himſelf : and on the contrary, if many are diſpoſed to fa 
inclined to buy, the value of ſuchghares will naturally 1 
portion to the impatience of thoſe WhO want to turn their 


ſpe ie. | | 
© Theſe obſervations may ſerve to give our readers ſome ig 
nature of that unjuſtifiable and diſhoneſt practice called ſtocl 
the myſtery of which conſiſts in nothing more than this; 
ſons concerned in that practice, Who are denominated ſock, 
make contracts to buy or ſell, at a certain diſtant time, 
quantity of ſome particular ſtock, againſt which time they 
vour, according as their contract is, either to raiſe or l 
ſtock, by raiſing rumours and ſpreading fictitigus ſtories, | 
to induce people either to ſell out in a hurry; and conſequent 
if they are to deliver ſtock; or to become unwilling to ſell, 
ſequently to make it dearer, if they are to receive (tock, 
The perſons who make theſe contracts are not in general 
of any real ſtock, and when the time comes that they are t 
or deliver the quantity they have contracted for, they only 
a ſum of money as makes the difference between the price 
was at when they made the contract, and the price it hapy 
at when the contract is fulfilled ; and it is no uncommon t 
perſons not worth 100 l. to make contracts for the buying « 
100,000 |, ſtock. In the language of Exchange-Ally, the 
this caſe is called the Bull; and the ſeller the Bear. | 
Beſides theſe, there are another ſet of men, who, thor 
higher rank, may properly enough come under the fame de 
tion. Theſe are the great monied men, who are dealers | 
and contractors with the government whenever any new mot 
be borrowed. Theſe indeed are not fictitious, but real bu 
ſellers of ſtock ; but by raiſing falſe hopes, or creating g 
fears, by pretending to buy or ſell large quantities of Rock « 
den, by uſing the forementioned ſet of»men as their il 
and other like practices, are enabled to raiſe or fall the fd 
or two per cent. at pleaſure, | ; 
However, the real value of one ſtock above another, on 
of its being more profitable to the proprietors, or any 
will really, or only in imagination, affect the credit of a 
or endanger the government, by which that credit is ſecure 
naturally have a conſiderable effect on the ſtocks. Thus, 
ſpect to the intereſt of the proprietors, a ſhare in the flock 
ing company which produces 51. or 61. per cent. per. ann. 
more valuable than an annuity with government ſecurity, 
duces no more than 3 l. or 41, per cent. per annum ; and co 
ly ſuch ſtock mult fell at a higher price than ſuch an annuty 
it mutt be obſerved, that a ſhare in the ſtock of a trading 
producing 5 1. or 61. per cent. per annum, will not fred 
mon-=y at market as a government annuity producing the 
becaule the ſecurity of the company is not reckoned equa q 
the government, and the continuance of their paying #0 | 
annum, is more precarious, as their dividend is, or 0% 
always in proportion to the profits of their trade. 
As the ſtocks of the Eaſt-India, the Bank, and Soul 


u GG L4 un n. 333 


” iſtinguilded by different denominations, and are of a. 
” + nature, We ſhall give a ſhort hiſtory of each of them, 
. account of the different ſtocks each is poſſeſſed of, 
„ with the Eaſt-India company, as the firſt eſtabliſhed, 


i trading Companies. ] Of theſe the Eaſt- India Company 
ve kad; and I have already given ſome account of it, as be - 
apital commercial object in England. The firſt idea of it 
Cened in Queen Eliſabeth's time, but it has ſince admitted of 
01 * ſhares, or ſubſeriptions, were originally only 
ring; and its capital only 369, 89 1 J. 58. but the directors 
a conſiderable dividend to make in 1676, it was agreed to 
tle profits to the capital, by which the ſhares were doubled, 
aſcquently, each b:came 1001, value, and the capital 739,82 l. 
v which capital, if 963,539 l. the profits of the company to 
#168;, be added, the whole itock will be found to be 1,703,4021. 
n the eftabliſhment of this company was vindicated in the 
t manner by Sir Joſiah Child, and other able-advocates, yet 
ality which the duke of Vork, afterwards James II. had far 
write African trade, the loſſes it ſuſtained in wars with the 
k and the revolutions which had happened in the affairs of 
an, damped the ardour of the public to ſupport it; ſo that at 
ae of the revolution, when the war broke out with France, it 
pavery indifferent firuation. This was in a great meaſure o W- 
pits having no parliamentary ſanction, whereby its ſtock often 
for one half leſs than it was really worth; and it was reſol- 
tut a new company ſhould be erected, under the authority of 
t. , | 
oppoſition given to all the public ſpirited meaſures of King 
un by faction, rendered this propoſal a matter of vaſt difficul- 
but at laſt, after many parliamentary inquiries, the new ſub- 
a prevailed ; and the ſubſcribers, upon advancing two mil- 
v the public at eight per cent. obtained an act of parliament in 
our. The old company, however, retained a vaſt intereſt 
I the parliament and nation; and the act being found in ſome 
þ5 defcQtive, ſo violent a ſtruggle between the two companies 
that in the year 1702, they were united by an indenture tri- 
„ In the year 1708, the yearly fund of eight percent. for 
alons, was reduced to five per cent. by a loan of 1,200,000 l. 
Pudlic, without any additional intereſt ; for which confidera- 
*. company obtained a prolongotion of its excluſive privileges; 
_iev charter was granted to them, under the title of The Un- 
apny of Merchants trading to the Eaſt- Indies. Its exclu- 
zu ab trade was prolonged from time to time; and a farther 
Fs lent by the conipan y, in 1730, by which, though the com- 
privileges were extended for thirty-three years, yet the in- 
Atdeir capital, which then amounted to 3,190,000 l. was re- 
e tiree per cent, and called the India three per cent, an- 


= mauities are diferent from the trading ſtock of the com- 


r rietors of which, inſtead of receiving a regular annu- 
" decording to their different thares, a dividead of the pro- 


fits 


©. B N T £2 
ts ariſing from the company's trade; and that &; 
falls according to the circumſtances of the company, eh 
as is too often the caſe, pretended. A proprietor of 
amount of 500 l. whether man or woman, native or & 1 
a right to be a manager, and to give a vote in the genera 
Two thouſand pounds is the qualification for à diredvr: + 
tors are twenty-four in number, including the chairman 4 
chairman, who may be re · elected for four years ſucceſſive 
chairman has a ſalary of 200 l. a year, and each of the dirs 
The meetings, or court of directors, are to be held at lol 
week ; but are commonly oftener, being ſummoned i as oe 
' quires; Out of the body of directors are choſen ſeveral ch 
Who have the peculiar inſpection of certain branches of 4 
pany's buſineſs ; as the committee of correſpondence} con 
buying, a committee of treaſury, a houſe committee, a ct 
of warehouſes, a committee of ſhipping, a committee of 4 
a commintee of law-ſuits, and a committee to prevent the 
private trade; who have under them a ſecretary, caſlier 
and warehouſe- keepers. ee 
The amazing territorial aequiſitions of this company, 
attended with a proportionable increaſe of trade, joined to 
fenfions among its 7 both at home and abroad, hay 
engaged the attention of the legiflature ſo much, that a re 
has been laid on their dividends for a certain time. Fro 
port of the committee in 1773, appointed by parliament 
affairs, it appears that the India company, from the year 
1756, for the ſpace of forty-ſeven years and a half; divided 
of 12,000,000 l. or above 280,000 l. per annum, which on 
of 3,190,000 |. amounted to above eight and a half per c 
that at the laſt mentioned period it appeared, that belide 
bove dividend, the capital ſtock of the company had been 
180,000 l. WIR | 
Other officers of the company are governors and fadors 

ſome of whom have guards of ſoldiers, and live in all the tia 
vereign princes. 


Bank of England.] The company of the bank was inet 
by parliament, in the 5th and 6th years-of king William at 
Mary, by the name of the Governors and Company of the 
England; in conſideration of the loan of 1,200,000). gran 
government ; for which the ſubſcribers received al 
cent. By this charter, the company are not to borrow unt 
common ſeal, unleſs by a& of parliament ; they are not do U 
ſuffer any perſon in truſt for them, to trade in any goods, 
chandize ; but they may deal in bills of exchange, in buy 
ling bullion, and foreign gold and filver eoig, '©c- 

By an act of parliament paſſed in the 8th and gth year 
liam III. they were impowered to enlarge their captal 
2,201, 7 l. 10s. It was then alſo enacted, that bank | 
be a perſonal, and not a real eſtate; that no contract either 
or writing, ſor buying or ſelling bank ſtock, Were re 
unleſs regiſtered in the books of the bank within ſeven d 


£7 07 Gu LA; D687 3 

in fourteen days ; and that it ſhould. be felony; 
ue of clergy, to counterfeit the common ſeal of the 
ed bank bill, or any bank note, or to alter or eraſe 


uf fea 


ade ad paſſed in the ich of Queen Anne, the company 
ered to augment their capital to 4,402, 343 J. and they 
ianced 400,000 I. more to the | TS and in 1714, 
wanced another loan of 1,500,000 I. | AOL RL, +4 
& third year of the reign of king George I. the intereſt of 
l lock was reduced to 5 per cent. when the bank agreed 
f up as many exchequer bills as amounted to.2,000,c00 l. 
xcept an annuity of 100,000]. and it was declared lawful 
wank to call from their members, in proportion to their in · 
athe capital ſtock, ſych ſums of money as in a general court 
ound neceſſary. If any member ſuould neglect to pay his 
the monies ſo called for, at the time appointed by hotice in 
don Gazette, and fixed upon the Royal Exchange, it ſhould 
| for the bank, not only to ſtop the dividend of ſuch mem - 
wo apply it towards payment of the money in queſtion ;z. 
to top the transfers of the ſhare of ſuch defaulter, and to 
lim with an intereſt of five per cent per annum, for the 
b omitted to be paid: and if the principal and intereſt 
be three months unpaid, the bank ſhould: then have power 
b noch of the ſtock belonging to the defaulter as would ſa - 
x this the bank reduced the intereſt of the 2,000,000 l. lent 
worernament, from's to 4 per cent. and purchaſed ſeveral o- 
duties, which were afterwards redeemed by the government, 
tational debt due to the bank, reduced to 1,600,c001. But 
, the company engaged to ſupply the government with 
ol, at three per cent. which is now called the three per cent. 
es; ſo that the government was now indebted; to the com- 
$300,000 |. the one half carrying four, and the other three 


de year 1746, the company agreed that the ſum of 986,800 l. 
[them in the exchequer bills unſatisfied, on the duties for li- 
Ito fell ſpiritous liquors by retail, thould be cancelled, and in 
df to accept of an annuity of 39,442 l. the intereſt of that 
tour per cent. The company allo agreed to advance the 
un of 1,000,000 l. into the. exchequer, upon the credit of 
ts ailing by the malt and land- tax, at four per cent, for ex- 
t bills to be iſſued for that purpoſe ; in conſideration of which, + 
auf vere enabled to augment their capital with 986, 800 l. 
ett of which as well as that of the other annuities, was re- 
ochree and à half per cent. till the 25th of December 1757, 
that time to carry cnly three per cent. 8 
in order to enable them to circulate the ſaid Exchequer bills, 
6 habe what is now called Bank circulation. The nature of 
M being well underſtood, we ſhall take the liberty to be a 
wo fut cular in its explanation than we have been with re- 
ue other ſtocks, f 
"uy of the bank are obliged to keep caſh ſufficient 1 
' wer 


| * | | | 

336 E N G L. A 

ſwer not only the common, but alſo any extracedingrs ; 

may be made upon them; and whatever money-they dan 
over and above the ſum ſuppoſed neceſſary for theſe — 

employ in what may be called the trade of the compan 4 
ſay, in diſcounting bills of exchange, in buying of only 
and in government ſecurities, Gc. t when the bank = 
the abovementioned. contract, as they did not keep Oe 
larger ſum of money than what they deemed neceſſary tg 
their ordinary and extraordinary demands, they could nor 4 
ently take out of their current caſh fo large a ſum as a mill 
which they were obliged to furniſh the government, withor 
lefſening that tum they employed in dilcounting, buying 
filver,. &c, (which would have been very diſadvatitageauy 
or inventing ſome method that ſhould anſwer all the py 
keeping the million in caſh. The method which they choſe, ar 
fully anſwers their end, was as follows: 

They opened a ſubſcription,/ which they renew annual 
million of money; wherein the ſubſcribers /adyanct 10 per & 
enter into a contract to pay the remainder, or any-part 
| whenever the bank ſhall call upon them, under the penalty 
feiting the 10 per cent. ſo advanced; in conſideration of wh 
bank pays the ſubſcribers four per cent. intereſt for the mor 
in, and one fourth per cent, for the whole ſum they agree 
niſh ; and in caſe a call ſhould be made upon them for the 
or any part thereof, the bank further agrees to pay them at 
of five per cent. per annum for fach ſum till they reply it 
they are under an obligation to do at the end of the year. 
means the bank obtains all the purpoſes of keeping a million 
ney by them; and though the ſubſcribers, it no call is mat 
them (which is in general the caſe) receive fix anda | 
cent. for the money they advance, yet the company” gains 
of 23,500 l. per annum by the contract; as will appear by 
lowing account: 35% Hat | 

The bank receives from the government for the advance 
of a million | | 
The bank pays to the ſubſcribèrs who advance _—_— 
and engage to pay (when called f6») goo,cool. more, 


The clear gain to the bank therelore is — | 
This is the ſtate of the caſe, provided the company ſhou 
no call on the ſubſcribers, which they will be ver vownlln 
becauſe it would not only leſſen their profit, but & the pu 
dit in general. 227 98 e 

Bank ſtock may not improperly be called a trading oc 
with this they deal very largely in foreign gold and filver 
counting bills of exchange +, Ge. Belides which, they are 
by the government very conſiderable ſums annually for the f 
ment of the annuities paid at their office. All which ady 
render a ſhare in their ſtock very valuable; though it 81 
in value to the Eaſt- India {tock. ' The company make div 
the profits half yearly, ol which notice is publicly wen . 


d 


\ 


+ At four per cent until the year 1773, when it was advanced to fit | 


— 


, 


8 wh 4 * 
1 N S D RNB *#f 
(aßen for their money, may readily receive it] but rf. 
i they judge convenient, are permitted to continue 
I 46d to have their intereſt added to the principal. 
company is under the direction of 4 gover nor, 4 b 6 
u twenty our directors, who are annually elected by he 
wut, in the ſame manner as in the Eaſt-India company. 
er more, compoſe 4 court of directors for managing the 
ere a 
Mcers of this company are very numerous. 
15 pom] During the long war with Francs in the reign 
bd Anne, the payment of the fallors of the royal navy being 
4 and they receiving tickets inſtead of money, were fre - 
ged. by their neceſſities, to ſel} theſe kickets to avariti- 
In t diſcount of 40 l. and ſometimes 56 1; per cent. By this, 
be means, the debts of the nation unprovided for by parhia- 
al which amounted to 9,47, 321 l. fell. into the hands o 
On which Mr Harley, at that time chancellor of the 
x, and aſterwards earl of Oxford, propoſed a ſcheme to al- 
proprietors of theſe debts and deficiencies fix per cent. per 
ad. to incorporate them, in order to their carrying on a 
the South-ſea ; and they were accordingly incorporated un- 
is of the Governor and Company of Merchants of Great · 
trading to the South-ſeas, and other parts of America, and 
raging the filliery, G. | x. thts 8 
kd this company ſeemed formed for the ſake of commerce, 
in the miniſtry never though ſcrioufly, during the courfe 
about making any ſettlements on the coaſt of South A- 
which was what flattered the expectations of the people 
t indeed ever carried into execution, or any trade ever un- 
ah this company, except the Aſſiento, in purſuance of the 
recht, for furniſhing the Spaniards with negroes ; of 
us company was deprived upon receiving e in lieu 
dam upon Spain, by a convention between the courts of 
Min and Spain, ſoon after the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; 


ther ſums were lent to the government in the reign of 
Anne, at fix per cent. In the third of George. I. the inter- 
E whole was reduced to five per cent. and they advanced 
is more to the government at the ſame interelt, By the 
the 6th of George L it was declared, that this company 
item all or any of the redeemable national debts; in con- 
L which the company were empawered to augment their 
wording to the ſums they mould diſcharge : and for en- 
©mpany *0 raiſe ſuch ſums for purchaſing annuities, ex- 
| for ready money new exchequer bills, carrying on their 
de company might, by ſuch means as they ſhould think 
mie ſuch ſums of money as in a general court of the com- 
Tx pany 


cn is ſoppoſed to have now twelve millions of circulating paper, 
rae und public credit in the Gemtleman's Magazine, November 


55 n 
pany ſhould be judged neceſſary. The company. 
ed to raiſe money 9 the Sea bonds, 8 | 
common ſeal, on the credit of their capital Rock. But; 
ee deputy-governor, or other members of the c 
* ſhould, purchaſe land or revenues of the crown, upon. ae 
the corporation, or lend money by loan or anticipation 
branch of the revenue, other than ſuch part only on which 
of loan was granted by parliament, ſuch fſub-governoe | 
eee of the company, ſhould forfeit treble the value of 5 
Ihe fatal South-Sea ſcheme, added in the year 1; 
executed upon the laſt - mentioned ſtatute, "The company 
firſt ſet out with good ſucceſs, and the value bf their toc 
firſt five years, had riſen faſter than that of any other cbm 
his majeſty, after purchaſing. 10,000 I. lock, had condel 
be their governor. Things were in this ſituation, when t 
vantage of the above ſtatute, the South-ſea bubble was 3 
The pretended defign of which was to raiſe a fund for ca 
a trade to the South-ſea, and purchaſing annuities, Cc. pd 
other companies: and propoſals were printed and diſtribute 
ing the advantages of the deſign, and inviting perſons into 
ſum neceſſary for carrying it on, together with the profits 
to arile from it, were divided into a certain number-of f 
ſubſcriptions, to be -purchaſed by perſons dilpoſed to 
therein. And the better to carry on the deception, the dir 
gaged to make very large dividends ; and actually declared 
ry 100 l. original ſtock would yield 501. per annum; w! 
ſioned ſo great a rife of their Rock, that a ſhare of 100], 
for upwards of 8001. This was in the month of July ; 1 
the end of September, it fell to 150 l. by which multitudes 
ined, and ſuch a ſcene of diſtreſs occaſioned, as is ſcarcely! 
ceived. But the conſequences of this infamous ſcheme ar 
known. We ſhall paſs over all the other tranſactions of 
pany, in the reigu of king George I. as not material to 0 
purpoſe. | WF 
By a ſtatute of the 6th of George II. it was enadted, 
and after the 24th of June 1733, the capital Rock of this 
which amounted to 14,651,1031, 8s. 1 d. and the thares 
ſpective proprietors, ſhould be divided into four equaFpa 
fourths of which ſhould be converted into a joint locks 
with annuities, after the rate of four per cent. until rede 
parliament, and ſhould be called the new South-Sea annu 
the other fourth part ſhould remain in the company a5 4 U 
pital ſtock, attended with the reſidue of the annuities or 
able at the exchequer to the company for their whole e 
redemption ; and attended with the fame ſums allowed for 
of management, and with all effects, profits-of trade, de 
leges, and advantages, belonging to the South-Sea compa 
the accomptant of the company {hould, twice every Je 
mas and Midſummer, or within one month after, ltate 
of the company's affairs, which ſhould be laid before the 
ral court, in order to their declaring a dividend; ad d 


vi 
a 
f 
| 
| 
f 
| 


— - 4 
——— —⅛4 
- RY 
- 


EN G IL A N N. gy 
1+ made out of the clear profits, and ſhould not exceed what 
n might reaſonably divide, without incurring any farther 
4d that the company ſhould not at any time divide more 
ay per cent. per annum, until their debts were diſcharged 3 
+ the South-Sea company, and their trading ſtock, ſhould, 
5 from the new joint ſtock of annuities, be liable to all the 
nd incumbrances of the company; and that the company 
uſe to be kept, within the city of London, an office, and 
« which all transfers of the new annuities ſhould be entered, 
|by the party making ſuch transfer, or his attorney; and 
n to whom ſuch transfer ſhould be made, or his attorney, 
aderwrite his acceptance; and no other method of tranſ- 
de annuities ſhould be good in law. "9 
annuities of this company, as well as the other, are now re- 
p31. per cent. | | 
company is under the direction of a; government, ſfub-go- 
; deputy-governor, and twenty-one directors; but no perion 
ſed to be governor, his majeſty excepted, unlets fach governor 
his own name and right, 5000 J. in the trading ttock ; the 
jor is to have 4000 l. the deputy-governor 3000 l. and a 
1000 l. in the ſame ſtock. In every general court, every 
p, having in his own name and right, 500 l. in trading ſtock, 
we; if 2000 l. two votes; if $000k three votes, and if 
bor votes. N 
Lal· India company, the bank of England, and the South- 
n, are the only incorporated bodies to which the govern- 
pundebted, except the Million-Bank, whoſe capital is only one 
conitituted to purchaſe the reverſion of the long exchequer 


utereſt of all the debts owing by the government, is now re- 
v three per cent. excepting only the annuities for the year 
be life annuities, the exchequer orders, and the bank four 
K conf. which ſtock will in 1781 be reduced to three: but 
„dea company ſtill continues to divide four per cent. on 
ent capital ſtock 3 which they are enabled to do from the 
ley make on the ſums allowed to them for management of 
ies paid at their office, and from the intereſt of annuities 
xe dot claimed by the preprietors. 
ie prices of the different ſtocks are continually fluctuating 
md below par, ſo when a perſon who is not acquainted with 
ans of that nature, reads in the papers the prices of ſtocks, 
bank ſtock is marked perhaps 127, India ditto 124 A 1244, 
litto 972, Oc. he is to underſtand. that 100 l. of thote 
i locks {ell at ſuch. a time for thoſe ſeveral ſums. 
"Ling the prices of the different ſtocks one with another, 
®remembered, that the intereſt due on them from the time 
payment, is taken into the current price, and the ſeller 
ens any ſeparate conſideration for it, except in the caſe of 
7 here the intereſt due ãs calculated to the day of fale, 
% ite purchaſer over and above the premium agreed for. 
* Werelt on the different ſtocks is paid at different times, 
*12itl underſtood, would lead a perſon, not weil acquaint- 
Uu 2 | ed 


* % 


ee (' n NN. & Le 5 nr 
ed with them, into conſiderable miltakes in his computating 
value; ſome always having a quarter's intereſt die on f 
than others, which makes an appearance of, a conſiderate 
in the price, when, in reality, there is none at all. Th 
ſtance, old South-Sea annuities fell at preſent for C 852, 
while new South-Sea annuities fetch only 4 Bag or $41.1 
gach-of them produce the ſame annual ſum of 3 per cent, . 
annuities haye a quarter's intereſt more due on them thay 
annuities, which amounts to 15 s. the exact difference 
however, one or two cauſes which will always make one! 
annuities ſell ſomewhat lower than another, though of thei 
value; one of which is, the annuities making bat a ſal 
and there not being, for that reaſon, ſo many-people at 
ready to buy into it, as into others, where the quaitity i 
becauſe it is apprehended that whenever the government pa 
national debt, they will begin with that particular ſpecies of 
the capital of which is the ſmalleſt DN CBS Nr 
A ſtock may likewiſe be affected by the court of Chane 
that court ſhould order the money which is under their di 
be laid out in any particular ſtock, that Rock; by having u 
2 will be raiſed to a higher price than any other 0 
value. 
By what has been ſaid, the reader will perceive how n 
credit and the intereſt of the nation depends on the fuppe 
ublic funds. While the annuities, and intereſt for money 
is there regularly paid, and the principal infured by both p 
ple, (a ſecurity not to be had in other nations) fore 
end us their property, and all Europe be intereſted in our 
the paper of the companies will be converted into money 
chandiſe, and Great Britain can never want caſh to carry ber 
into execution. * 
In other nations, credit is founded on the word of the 
a monarchy ; or that of the people, if a republic; bat here! 
þliſhed on the intereſt of both prince and people; which is t 
elt ſecurity : for however lovely and engaging honelly 
other reſpects, intereſt in money matters will always obta 
dence ; becauſe many people pay great regard to their inte 


have but little veneration for virtue. 


Tuhabitants, Manners, Cuſtoms, aud Diverſions.) The 6 
of the Engliſh conſtitution, from the deſpotic powers en 
foreign nations, not excepting republics, is one great re 
is very difficult to aſcertain the number of inhabitants in 
and yet it is certain that this might occaſionally be done, 
ment, without any violation of public liberty. With weg 
litical calculations, they muſt be very fallible, when apple 
gland. Ihe prodigious influx of foreigners, who ſettle 
tion, the former evacuations of inhabitants to America 3 
from thence, the vaſt numbers of hands employed in ſhpy 
the late demand of men for the Eaſt-Indies, and for { 
new. conqueſts, are all of them matters that render any 
extremely precarious. Upon the whole, I am apt te 


LL NG; TLD $1 
v more populous, than the eſtimators of her inhabitants are 
low. The late war, which broke out with France and 
ww null employed above 200,000 Engliſhmen, excluſipe.of 
; Alb, by lea and land, and in its progreſ carried off by 
\ means, very near that number. i. 
men, in their perſons, are generally well-fized, 
” commonly fair, rather than otherwiſe,” and florid in their 


foreigners that are intermingled and intermatried with the 
> hare given a caſt to their perſons and complexions, differ - 
thoſe of their anceſtors, 150 years ago. The women, in 
lapes, features, and complexion, appear 10 graceful and love · 
x Eogland may be termed the native country of female beau» 
1it has been alſo obſerved, that the women of Lancaſhire 
» other counties, diſplay a manitett fuperiority in theſe re- 
But beſides the external graces ſo peculiar to the women 
id, they are ſtill more to be valued for their prudent be- 
x, thorough cleanlineis, and a tender affection tar theic huſ- 
and children. | . 
ul people in the world the Engliſh keep themſelves the moſt 

r 0 ; Their nerves are ſo delicate, that people of both ſexes are 
feed by imagination, inſomuch, that before the practice of 
wlation for the ſmall-pox took place, it was thought improper 
pe ation that loathſome diſeaſe, by its true name, in any polite 
« This over ſenſibility is one of the ſources of thoſe oddi- 
wich ſo ſtrongly characteriſe the Engliſh nation. An appre- 
ef dying a beggar, often kills them in the midſt of plenty 
pur aperity. They magniſy the flighteſt appearances into reali- 
ud bring the moſt diſtant dangers immediately home to them- 
ud yet when real danger approaches, no people face it with 
x reſolution, or conſtancy of mind. A groundlefs paragraph 
N. paper, has been known to affect the ſtocks, and conſe - 
lj public credit, to a conſiderable degree, and their credulity 
bfu, that England may be termed the paradiſe of quacks and 
, in all arts and profeſſions. In ſhort, the Englith feel, as 
kuly exiſted, eyery evil in mind, body, and eſtate, which they 
their imagination. At particular intervals, they are ſenſible 
Wſurdity, and run into a contrary extreme, ſtriving to banith 
dilation, riot, intemperance, and diverſions. They are 
br the ſame reaſon, of clubs, and convivial aſſociations, and 
lee are kept within the bounds of temperance and modera- 
ley prove the beſt cures for thoſe mental evils, which are ſb 
ru the Engliſh, that foreigners have pronounced them to be 


7 p . 

1 ane cbſeryations hold with regard to the higher orders of 
ple Nich muſt be acknowledged to have undergone a remarkable 
le luce the acceflion of the houſe of Hanover, eſpecially of late 


The Enylith nobility and gentry, of great fortunes, now 
fe their manners to thoſe of foreigners, with whom they cul- 
ware frequent intercourſe than their forefathers had. They 
dr travel only as pupils, to bring home the vices of the 
che Vit, under the tuition, perhaps, of a pe- 

, cant, 


- : 


um, It is, however, to be preſumed, that the vaſt num. 


9 


dreach of the peace, fo that every Engliſhman has a copion 


verty from any other country, the ſtreets of London, and t 


1 . 1 ; : ;, 
% 


ww 1 * . A 


dant, or family dependant. They travel for the Purpoſes of 
and at the moſt advanced ages of life, while their judgment, 
ture, and their paſſions regulated. This has enlarged focicy 
land, which foreigners now viſit as commonly as Engi 
ted them, and the effects of the intercourſe become daily u 
fible, eſpecially as it is not now, as formerly, confinedto n, 
Few people know better than tradeſmen, and men af bug 
England, how to pay their court to theircuſtomers and «ns 
nay even to their ſervants and domeſtics.” Thoſe arts they 
only as the means of acquiring that independence, the pride 
too commonly leads them into a contrary extreme; even 
thinking themſelves under no obligation from the rules of 
duty, and ſubordination. This carries them to that petulat 
is fo offenſive to ſtrangers, and though encouraged throng i 
of education, has its root in the nobleſt of principles, badl 
Rood, I mean that right which the lads of England give if 
man over his own property. The ſame laws, at the ſame tit 
no cognizance of the abuſe of liberty, if not carried into at 


for unpumſhed ill manners, and unprovoked infolence; "Thi 

tiouſneſs, or abuſe of freedom, is carried in England to an a 

ing * 75 and ſeems to be epidemical. It is a public evil, 1 

ſtead of loſing, gathers ſtrength, and what is to be lament 

violence is always in proportion. to the mildneſs'of the gone 
and its cautious execution of the lass. 

The over ſenſibility of the Engliſh, is diſcovered in nothit 
than in the vaſt ſubſcriptions for public charities, raiſed by 
grees of both ſexes. An Engliſhman feels all the pains whic 
low-creature ſuffers, and poor and miſerable-objets are rel 
England with a liberality that ſome time or other may prove 
ous to induſtry, becauſe it takes from the lower ranks the uf 
tives of labour, that they may ſave ſome what for themlelves 
miles, againſt the days of pain or ſickneſs. The very ped 
contribute to thoſe collections, are aſſeſſed in proportion to ty 
perty for their parochial poor, who have a legal demand for 
tenance, inſomuch that there can be no beggar in England! 
choice or indolence ; and upwards of three million ſterling is 
be collected yearly in this country for charitable purpoles. 4 
Kitutions, however, of extra-parochial infirmanies, hoſprta 
the like, are in ſome caſes reprehenſible. The valt ſums & 
in building them, the contracts made by their governors, ' 
the election of phyſicians, who thereby acquire credit, wii 
ſame as profit, very often begets heat and cabals, which 
different from the purpoſes of diſintereſted charity, 0wny 
violent attachments and prepoſſeſſious of friends, and too 0 
to party conſiderations, L | 

Notwithſtanding: thoſe noble ' proviſions which would! 


ways of England, abound with objects of diſtreſs, = — 
ance of the laws, which render the practice levere ＋ 
This is owing to the manner in which the common peop! 


* 


ERK G L A. Ny Dy 343 
e the food to be-uneatable, which in other countries, would 
Os. r 4 1% 4a) TY EIT ITT 
.. wongh iraſcible, are the moll placable people in che 
id vill often ſacrifice part of their intereſt rather than pro- 
© earemity] They are eaſily prevailed upon to, forgive by. 
Ia and they carry this lenity tos far, by accepting of. pro» 
{ ſorrow publiſhed in advertifements, by thoſe, who, offend 
ind who ſeldom are ſincere; nay, often laugh at the.cafineſs 
| proſecutors, for Bunte them ſo gently., The unſuſpec. ' 
wire of the Engliſh, and their honeſt open enen eſpecial - 
doſe in the mercantile way, render them dupes in ſeveral re- 
They attend to projectors, and no ſcheme is ſo ridiculous - 
1] not find abettors in England. They liſten to the voice of 
nes in trade, whether real or pretended, deſerved or acci- 
ud generouſly contribute to the relief of the parties even 
Icing them, often in a more creditable, condition. than ever. 
well bred of the Engliſh, are capable of thoſe and the like 
ww addions, but they often make an oſtentatious diſplay,of their 
merits, which diminiſhes their value. There is among the 
| of all ranks, a moſt unpardonable preſerence given to wealth, 
ll other conſiderations. , Riches, both in public and private, 
lte for the abſence of every. good quality. This offenſive 
wiſes partly from the, democratical part of their conſtitu- 
wich makes the poſſeſſion of property a,qualification for the 
re, and almoſt every, other ſpecies of magillracy, govern- 
honours, and diſlindions. Nr e 
ame attention to property operates in many ot fler ſhapes a- 
the lower claſſes, who thinks it gives them a right to be rude 
kregardtul of all about them; nor are the higher orders ex- 
«va the fame failing, The ſame principle often influences 
terion appearances, - Noblemen of, the frſt rank have been 
ke laying bets with butchers and coblers at horſe-races and 
zanches. Gentlemen and merchants of vaſt property are 
d dillinguiſhed either by their dreſs or converſation, from. the 
dof their ſervants, and a wager. offered to be (taked in ready 
[aainit a pennyleſs angge . is generally a deciſive argu- 
A public company. 3 | r e 
| Lopliſkman of thorough education and reading, is the moſt 
Pilted gentleman in the world, aud underſtands arts and ſci- 
Ile bet. He is, however, ſhy and retentive in his communi- 
eren to diſguſt, and a man may be in company with him for 
* without diſcovering that he knows any thing beyond the 
Na farm yard, or above the capacity of a horſe jocky., This 
1 eoldneſs is ſo far from being affected, that it is a part of 
* conſtitution. Living, learning, and genius, meets with 
de regard, even from the firſt rate of Engliſhmen: and it is. 
10 lor them to throw aſide the beſt productions of litera- 
„ade not acquainted with the author. While the tate 
* Whig and Tory ſubſiſted, the heads of each party af - 
„Lone men of literary abilities, but the pecuniary en- 
3 zven them were but very moderate, and the very few 
rh preferment in the ſtate, might have earned them by a 
competent 


% 


- — — — - 


nl. ww wo 


— my 


. — * 
— — 2 


- — ——— — 


—— — 


— — — 


—— 


— > 
2 — 


— ſ _—— 


— — — —U — —— — — 
. 


if Papiſk. This reproac 
not wearing off under the patronage of his majelly and his ul 


* * , \ 4 py 
1 l * MT A. 
* | : | | 


v. 5 5 0 1 TI o - . $? : 1 
4 E N G IL. A N 


| l pet dents in office generally -poſſeſs. We ſcarce liave 2% 


the munißcent reign of Queen Anne, or of her fan 
oved o much to the N 4 man of gthing wks 
in his circumſtanceg. Mr Addiſon Had about joot'y 

tue public money to afſiſt him in his travels! and Mr Pes 
. Roman-catholie, was offered, but did not accept of the 
fion from Mr Craggs, the Whig ſecretary of Rate, ben 


A that his Tory friend and companion the earl of Ort 


'tainitter, er for him but bewail is misfortune? 
upon the munificence of povernd 


The unevenneſs of the Engliſh in "their converſation 


markable: ſometimes it is delicate, ſprightiy, and replete wi 


wit; fometimes it is ſolid, ingenious, and argumentative; 
times ĩt is cold and phlegmatic, and borders apoy dugul, 
Sap? 


m̃ the ſame perſon. In their convivial meetings 


noiſy, and their wit is often offenſtve, while the uten we of 


r Courage is a quality that ſeems t6 be tongeni 


nglh nation. Boys, beſore they can "ſpeak, diſcover 
know the proper guards in boxing with their fits; 4 qual 
perhaps is peculiar to the Engliſh; and is ſecotidgd by a 


atm that few other people can exert. This gives the Engl 


diets an infinite fuperiority in all 'battles that are to be dee 
the bayonet” ferewed upon the muſket; The agi cos 
likewiſe the property, under able commanders,” of being eqt 
five ds active. Their ſoldiers will keep up their es iu the mt 


danger, but when they deliver it, it has a molt dreadful el 
thei 


betete and in naval engagements they are ug 
Englim are not remarkable for invention, though they ag 
Improvements upon the inventions of others, and in the tn 


arts, they excel all nations in the world. "The aten apy 
Which an Engliſhman gives to a favourite tuch is inerecn 


as it were, abſorbs all his other ideas. This creates the n 
mſtarices of mental abſences that are to be found in the want 
Al T have faid concerning the Engliſt, is de de unden 
them in general, as they are at preſent, for jt is nt to-be Un 
tllat every day produces ſtrong indications of great lter 
their manners. Phe vaſt fortunes made during ide Tate 

preceding wars, the immenſe acquiſitions of territory by fen 
abbve'all the amazitg increaſe of territorial as well as con 
property in the Eaſt- Indies, have introduced & ſperies of pe 
mong the Engliſh, who have become fich without induſtry, 

diminiſhing the value of gold and ſilver have ereated a ne 

of finances in the nation. Time alone can ſhew the event? 8 
the conſequences ſeem to have been unfavourable, K 1 


cuced among the commercial ranks a ſpirit of luxury and 


that is attended with the moſt fatal effect, and un emulation 
merehants and traders of all kinds, to equal, or f 7 
ty and the courtiers. The plain frugal niatiners of men 
which prevailed ſo lately as the acceflion of the preſent _ 
crown, are now diſregarded for taſteleſs extravagance i 7 


1 


md 
the capita! 
euloms of the iſh have, 
| — e an — N 
bald but in few places in the country, or n tevived only 
Laneering occaſions. Many of their favourite diverſions | 
cd. Thoſe remaining are operas, ' matic ' Ethibi- 
we, and ſometimes tffaſquerades in or near London; 
woc, and card and dancing aſſemblies are common 
thjpdoti, The Englith of all denominations art 8 ' 
of ſtag aud fot-hutftting;” and horſe- races. = 
ent way be offered by way of gy Tor thoſe diver- 
W intenſs application which the En Fre to buſinels, 
try Hyves, and luxurious diet require exerciſe; and forhe 
4 their excellent breed of horſes is increaſed und improved 
muſements. The Englin are remürkably ebol, both In 
nd winning at play, but rhe former is often; üttendetl with. 
Wede, An Engliſhman" will rather Wurder himfeff than 
Inrper, who he knows has fleeced” him, wh condigü puniſb. 
aun though warranted by law. Next to Rorſe- rating, and 
wet fighting, to the réproaeh of the nation, is 4 favoür- 
wn, among the great, as well as the vulgar. Mukituches 
Aemble round the pity at one of thoſe matches, and en 
wand death of the geuerous animal, every ſpeckator bein 
Un bet, ſometimes of high fums. The athletic div 
ker is fill kept up in the Southern and Weſtern parts of 
þ nd is fomerimes practiſed by people of the higheſt rank. 
Armed by a perſon who with a clumſy wooden bat; deferids 
Enifed of two Nender Ricks; with one actoſe, Which fs th 
mother perſon, who endeavours to bent it down with a 
Whee ball, from a certain land. The farther the diſtance is 
Atke ball is driven, the oftener the defender is able to run 
le wicket and the ſtand. This is called gaining ſo many 
und he who gets the moſt is the victor. Many other — 
wmmon in England, forme of them of a very robust ua. 
A cudgelling, wreſtling, bowls, ſkittles, quoits, and pri- 
V tot to mention duck-Runting, foot; and aſt- races, dan 
Met-ſhews, May-garlands, and above all, ringing of bells, 
be muſic which the Engliſh boalt they have brought into 
The barbarous diverſions of boring and prize kings 
es frequent in England, and equally mhunan, as the | 
Ffdiators in Rome, are now prohibited; and all places of 
Merſions, excepting the royal theatres, are under fregul#- 
A of parliament, Other. diverſions, which are common to 
Muitries, ſuch as tennis, fivec, bilſtards, cards, ſwimming, 
olg, courſing, and the like, are familiar to che Eng- 
w tiads, and thoſe highly laudable, are perhaps rar 
ad theſe are rowing and failing, The latter, if not in- 
E e patronized and enconraged, by his preſent majefly's 
le lie prince of Wales, and may be confidered as 4 na. 
ment, The Englifh. are exceffively fond of fkainng, 
Wverer, they are not very expert, but they are adventu - 
X x rous 


- 
1 JL 


— N EF 
- be | 2 


„% n * S-%m. 
rous in it oſten to the danger and.loſs.of their lives... 
have taken from the common people a great 2 
without e the 9 the rich, for the fame 
country people, deſtroy the game in their nets, whi 

& Mill wich che gan. * 178 887 * ing „ uy 
9, In. the dreſt of both. ſexes, before 
| HY I. they followed the French 3; but ge one 
The partook of the German, in compliment, to. his lus 


M7 


3 #4 


he Engliſh, at preſent, bid fair ;to.-be;the diftators.of dv 
rench themſelves, at leaſt with regard to elegance, nex 
richneſs of attire. , People of quality and fortune, of both © 
pear on high occaſions, in cloth af gold and filyer, the ng 
. cades, ſattins, filks, and velvets, both flowered and plaia, 
| to the: honour of the court, that the foreign.manufattures g 
are diſcodraged, Some of - thoſe, rich us are laid tote 
80 as great perfection in England, as they are in France, 6 
ther nation. The quantities of jewels that appear on ge 
ſtions are incredible, eſpecially fince the valt acquilitions off 
| liſh in the Eat-Indies. The ſame nobility, and perſons; 
tion, on ordinary occaſions, dreſs like. creditable citizens, 
neat, clean, and plain, in the fineſt cloth, and the bel 
The full dreſs of a clergyman. confiſts of his gown, calſo 
- bi ver · hat and roſe, all of black : his undrels is a dark x 
and plain linen. The phyſicians, the formality of 

large tie perukes, and ſwords, was formerly. remarkable, i 
diculous, begin now to dreſs like other gentlemen, and me! 
neſs, that is, to wear a plain ſuit of ſuperioe_cloth,.e 
and wigs, that ſuit their complexions, and the forw.of 
Few Engliſhmen, tradeſmen, merchants, aud lawyers, u 
men of landed property, are without, lome n for the 
the field, on which occaſions. they dreſs with remarkable; 
in a. light frock, narrow brimmed hat, a thort bob wy 
boots, and buckfkin or ſhag breeches. | The people of Eng 
rather to be neat than fine in their  apparelz but knee the 
of his preſent majeſty, the dreſſes at court, on lolemn. dee 
ſuperb beyond deſcription. Few even of the lowelt trade 
Sundays, carry about them Jeſs than 101, in clothing, com 
ing bat, wig, . ſtockings, ſhoes and linen, and even many 
in the ſtreet. appear decent in their dreſs. In et, none 

moſt abandoned of both ſexes are otherwiſe ; and the appe 

a man in holiday times, is commonly an indication or an 


 Conflitution.] Every Britiſh gentleman is ſenſible, that! 
à country, where life, liberty, and property, are better kt 
in any kingdom in Europe. | Le 
- _ _ - /Thelegillative authority (or the power of making laws a 
money) is veſted in king, lords, and commons, and e 
has a negative when theſe matters are propoſed· 
The crown is made hereditary in the Hanover line dy 


— — —„ —_ = 


T3 SCI. - 


IT 8 


„ 


TE SEES 


* 


- , 
\ 


BEN G L AN ay 
Eee ee Popry e rie 
enen en eee 
2e created by the crown, but their "Honours are here- 
emo be taken from them any more than their lives * 
less forfeited by the-commifſion of bigh treaſom and 
bre only by the whole houſe'of pete, 'being ſubje@ to 
MOI ede at 94 vir Ih Mint un HSE 
rand is the laſt reſort in all civil cauſes; wnleſt-where- » 
Ls; of the commons are affected ; and they eum try any 
2 a5 impeachment of the commons; but no ſuit or 
an be begun _ 2 commoner in the houſe of lords, 
they may be poſſt of à eauſe, and determine unge 
| IS. 2 a ion 
Wee he making a new law, or altering an old law, — 
1 r houſe of — except — He 
ing to the revenues or publie taxes eun — ; 
We firſt, or — 1 — it comes up from the com- 
it may be totally rejected by che lords. 
BT of peer can apprehend and commit any man for a 
Eprivilege, or reflections on their jadieature (except a mem- 
commas) and ſuch a commitment” is 6f itſelf a ſufficient 
at frequently, being vaſtly chargeable; but ſuck perſons' 
d of courſe on the riſing of the ton xx 
bord, in his private capacity, may bring his ation of Scan- 
wgatim againſt any ſubject, in the court of King's-bench, 
recover ſuch damages for, defamation as a jury fhall think 
tommons are ſaid to ' repreſent the people, though they do 
ality repreſent a fourth part of them; for only the free - 
we for a Knight of the ſhire, and theſe ſcarce amount to a 
the inhabitants of any county; and in ſome eities and bo- 
Gere is as great, or a much greater diſproportion, partieu - 
London, where there are 300,000 people and upwards, and 
the liverymen, who amount to about 7000, have à vote 
Many great towns have no vote at all in the elections. 
W any ſtreſs therefore to be laid on that maxim, That all 
al power is derived from the people {from the multitude} 
ſt has been very few juſt or legal goverments in this or any 


wes alſo may think it a hardſhip, that they are neither al- 
Flac in the ſenate, or a voice in the choice of what is cal- 
wpelzatative of the nation. The Freneh-exctude them from 
, and, though England never Nouriſhed more than under 
We) are not thought qualified to give their votes for a re- 
However, their influence appears to be ſuch, in many 
lit they have little reaſon to complain. In boroughs, 
us are ſo wiſe, as to apply chiefly to the wife. A certain 
br a Norfolk borough kiſſed the voters wives with guineas 
for which he was expelled the houſe ; and for this rea- 
* | preſume, will be more private in their addreſſes to the 


« 


: * 


N ſpeaking of the Britiſh conflitution, ſays, it ſeems 
X x 2 dictated 


— 2 —— — — — 


| _—_ 


af the branches of the legiſlature conſtantly iofluenges the. 


on be remedied ? For the exenutive. power: (the 


be adjudged a traitor. We ba 


| Teferve, and thoſe officers muſt obey; miniſters from whom 


laced coat and a feather. 


in a ſbield ſurtout, Mars, the diedew or crown of Cur 


NL anc 
wild F dut read ti history, | 
rs pen ſo os | 


I 


Plato's republic, but an ideal proje@, yet redugibla4o xa 


aud if the crown can make it appear do be the private 
every individual, that compoſes Ihe other branches; to. 
tates, the Britiſh court' may be as abſolute as any-coun of 


And, if the grown ſhould aſſume ay abſolute dowiniog, 


laws in execution) and the command of 
land, as well as the making allianc 
are veſted ſolely in the erowu by la 
a conſpiracy to oppoſe or refiſt 
F We 
ther nations enjoy, of being tried b 
very much lies in the power of ſheriffs 


* 


the 


neighd 
jor ies a5 


privileges of the bid. 
— eos of the royal navy or army have very little pe 
to them; they are ſubject to the ſentence of a-courteman 


may, in many caſes, be puniſhed without being brought be 
judicature. Theſe are obliged to obey their ſuperior officers 


ceive their commiſſions. The moment thereſore a gevtlen 

into the ſervice, be waves all the rights and privileges he 

iatitled to as an Engliſhman, or rather bagters-them 3 
ha? Ry 


The King's title. ] George III. by de Grace: of Dol 
Britain, France, and Ireland, Ki > Defender of the Fu 
of Brunfwie and Lunenburg, Arch-Tregluten and Elec 


. ” 


Holy Roman Empire. rh 
Arms. ] In the firſt grand quarter, Mars, three lions pal 
ant in pale, Sol: the imperial. enſign: df E wp 
the royal arms of Scotland, which are Sol, a on rampal 
2 double treſſure fſowered and connterflowered with Ber 
Mor- The ſecond quarter is the royal arms of Frame, 
three Fleurs-de-Lis, Sol. The third the enfignof led 
is Jupiter, an harp, Sol, ringed: Luna,” The fourth g 
ter is his preſent majeſty's own coats Mars, two lions pal 
ant, Sal, for Bundes. impaled with Lunenburg, which 
mee of hearts, Proper, A lion rampant, Jupiter, hav 
Y, viz, Mars, an borſe current, Luna, grafted in 


The whole Within a garter, as ſovereign of that mol noo 


1 © , 


anne ny 47 


bd vert, for E. 

wd; being ſo. adorned by King James I. whoſe ſupporters 
is of Scotland) were two unicorns but, under him, Eng- 
Nag waited to that nation, gave occafion tor our carryin 
tea on the ſiniſter fide 3 and in the year 1614, a3 King 
he alſo cauſed the harp to be mariballed wie the arms 
Fritziny ſince which time it bath been put on the Brizzth 

5 RY 


| The and forces of theſe kingdoms, /in time. of peace; are 


n [reland, 8000 in the garriſon, of: Gibralter, . and about 
Auzapoks, in Nova- Scotia, New-York, and Jamaica. 

ine of war there have been in Britiſh pays natives and-for- 
ads of 150, ooo. rA Ai ound, 1 et 
complement of ſeamen, in time of peace, is uſualhliy 12.07 
ln time of war, money has been raiſed far Go, ooo Kamen, 
ſe ace men of war of the line of battle (from too down: to 50 
[150 fail; of fifth rates, under 50, and above 20, 30 fail; of 
of 20 guns each, 70 fail 1 floops of war, of 16 guns and 
nch, 54 ſail, Total of the royal navy, 310 ſhips of war, 
$domb-veſſels, fire-ſhips, and royal yacht. 


„] The King's revenue for the civil lift is doo per 


aber charges of the government, for the payment of the 
Nea and land, and Aicberging the intereſt of the national 

mount to above ſix millions more z and in time of war there 
er raiſed or borrowed near 20 millions within the ſpace-of a 


The ſeveral ſpecies of taxes are,, 
* land-tax, often at 4%. in the pound. 2. The malt-tar, 
dename. 4. The exciſe. 5. The ſtamp- duties. 6. Window - 
Caches and chairs. 8. Hawkers and pedlars. 


* The national religion, as ellabliſbed by law, is Chriſli- 
Purmable to the doctrine delivered in the New Teſtament f 
* An 


46,000, all national troops, wa 18, 0 in Great Britain, | | 


. _ = * - \ 
as * 
7 "4 ! U * / * 
* * | : : 


$30 EN. 0:6 | * S 
| and freed from the erroneous appendages of 
The government in religion is ſuppoſed" under Is 
national ſynod of the clergy ; eee 
writs at the fame time as the parliament is ; each dioceſe 
and each cathedral one, beſides the biſhops, r Cc. 
vocation does meet indeed, but are direciy died by 
r 
eccleſiaſtical affairs being Nr the courts of the h 
ſhops, and — 1 $62 
In England, mankind are at hberty eee the Bopren 
in that manner moſt agreeable to their ideas5 providedthep 
does not diſturb the national worſhip, or "interfere with + 
This toleration has been productive of many ſeQs,” diſingu 
their forms of worſhip, by their creeds, or by their nai 
ſome points of belief, iſcuſied only by enthifiaſts, or by foe 
pe& ſome benefit from new Gngularides The abſurdity whi 
vailed ſome years ago of attempting to ridicule religion and 
727 a rpg who called — freethinkers, 1s, in 
_ kiciently exploded; and thoſe who ſtill continue to think f 
monly — a ſufficient ſhare of good manners not to difly 
rr about 2 
amend. 


a Archbiſhopries and Biſhops. } 8 are in England two 

des, vis. Canterbury and York, each of hien haf ft, 
In the province of Canterbury are- the'biſhopries of l. 

2. Wincheſter, 3. Ely, 4. Lincoln, 5. Rocheſter, 6 Liens 


Coventry, 7. Hereford, 8. Worceſter, 9. Bath aud Wells, 
liſbury, 11. Exeter, 12. Chicheſter, 143; Norwich, 14. Gi 
15. Oxford, 16. Pet hy 17. Briiol4 and 0 Wales 
David%, 19. Landaff, 20. St Aſaph, 21. Bangor: 

In the province of York are, i. The USER 
une, and 3. Cheſter. 0 

In all, two archbiſhoprics, and twenty. ſour biſhoprits: # 
meer 
W ee eee 95 


Uninerfitler T There are but two oniverbiie in England; 
and Cambridge ; but the great men educated in them, their 
rous magnificent buildings, and rich endowments; are the 
tion of all foreigners that viſit them. 

In Oxford there are twenty colleges and fre halk, ar 
of two thouſand ſtudents of all ſorts. 

In Cambridge there are ſixteen colleges, and, chouph 
them are denominated halls, they are all endowed, and d 
manner of difference between a college and hall in Cambridge 
as in Oxford the halls are not wed, bay ION 
themſelves. 

The number of fellows, ſcholars, and ſtudents of all f 
univerſity of Cambridge, is uſually about 2 

There are profeſſors in all langua . in each of thel wal 
richly endowed, and Ring George T, in the year 174% © 


, - 
” 1 4 


10 % 351 


nodern Hiſtory and language in-each-unirerfity,: and 
x we ſettled a revenue, of three hundred pounds coll wh 


| I they never read hectures in modern hiſtory ; nor 


s read lectures in the univerſity. . 7 


he 


br the ſeat of learning and the Muſes, Her 
both in the time of the Saxons, when ilm and igno» 

the reſt of Europe, nor has there ſince his time 
e 2 continual ſucceſſion. of learned men, who have di- 
0 L by their writings or ſtudies. Theſe are ſo nu- 
that a bare catalogue of their names, down to this day, 
frm 2 moderate volume. | AR 


be of their learning. They art ſolid and ſubſtantial, and 


& conveniency of its profeſſors 3 witneſs the two univerſities of 
u Cambridge, inſtitutions that are not to be matched in 
xl, and which were reſpected even amidſt the barbarons rage 
war, The induſtrious Leland, Who was hichſelf a movin 

In the firſt who made à ſhort collection of the lives an 

lis of thoſe learned perſons, who, preceded the reign of his 
Henry VIII. among whom be has inſerted ſeveral of the 
al of both ſexes, particularly a ſon and daughter of the 


p * ſome of whom were equally devoted to Mars 
ating of the dark ages, it would be unpardonable, if I ſhould 
ſe mention of that prodigy of learning, the natural philoſo- 
Roger Bacon, who was the forerunner in ſcience to the great 
ord Verulam, as the latter was to Sir Iſaac Newton. A- 
tte other curious works aſcribed to him by Leland, we find 
8 upon the flux and reflux of the Britiſh ſea, upon metallur- 
pu altronomy, coſmography, and upon the impediments of 
E. He lived under Henry III, and died. at Oxford in 
i: honourable Mr Walpole has preſerved the memory of 
whe and royal Engliſh authors, who have done honour to 
ud the Muſes, and to his work I muſt refer. Since the 
Won, England reſembles a galaxy of literature t, and it is 
ug juſtice to the memory of Cardinal Wolſey, though other- 
a gerous and profligate miniſter, to acknowledge that both 

pee and excouragement, laid the foundation of the polite 


ja clergy had different ſentiments in religious matters, at 

the reformation, encouragement was given to learned 

to ſettle in England. Edward VI. during his ſhort life, 

meat deal for the encouragement of theſe e and 

; younons which had he lived muſt have been extremely fa- 

v tters, Learning, as well as liberty, ſuffered an 2 
| 2 to 


+ Ses the Biographia Britannica. 


Ebgliſh inſtitutions, for the benefit of ſtudy, partake n . 
& for the caſe, the diſencumbrance, the , peace, the plenty, 


Wired, Editha, the queen of Edward the confeſſor, and o- 


Wl the revival of claſſical learning in England. As many of 


h.cheſe profeſſors have enjoyed their ſalaries ever 


Alfred 


* 


* 
- 


=, EN OL 
M 


72 ehen gland, during the bloody bigötteg 
Miry. Ber Efffibeth, her le de Neff Ve 
Sue advanced any perfons of conftimimare abilid" wi 
1 and {tate N ons to hive ft 
rary accompliſhments'to' have Been only feondaby wins 
This ſhe ſhewed herſelf 2 preat politician, but 115 — 
a amiable queen, Had The" Failed genius From thaw 
though ſhe was no ſtrauger to Spencer*s mul, the tilled) 
Ve i tuch impoſed upon, by an” anfeeling” ihne 
latiguifhed to death in obſfctrity. Though The kate ene het 
the divine Shakeſpear, yet We know nor chat e is dls 
by any particular acts of her minificence 3"bu) 
E fupplied by her favourite the bart vf Ez, rhe polied 
ol his age, and his friend the ear} of "Southainipron; wh 
,,, ‚ rr 
Te enceuragement of learned fcteigners in England g 
tb the'reign of James I. Who was very taunſfcett aß Pu 
other foreign authors of diſtinction, eben of dieren pegel 
was himſeff no great author, but his example Had à wud 
ſect upon kis © wh Kapil his reigh were formell holt pri 
ters of polemic divinity, whoſt works are ama ethane: 
of knowledge. Nor muſt it be forgot, that che fend Bars 
I have already mentioned, was by Him "created ebe Ws 
and lord high chancellor. of England. He was likewiſe the » 
Camden, And other hiſtorians, as” well" as antiquarics, whal 
are to this day ſtandards in thoſe Rudies, © Upon the who! 
fore, it cannot be denied, that Engliſh learning i wider y 
tions to James I. A3 ĩͤ 
His ſan Charles I. had a taſte for the polite arts, er 
ture, painting, and architecture. He was the patron of 
' Vandyke, Inigo Jones, and other eminent artiſts, A e } 
- been for the civil wars, he would probably days enen Sun 
and capital, into a ſecond Athens, and the” colledions ke win 
that purpoſe, coridering his pecuniary difficulties, were ae 
His favourite, the duke of , Buckinghun, een e ellen 
ſpect, and laid aut the amazing ſum, of 460,000 1, Nerling,1 
cabinet of paintings and euriolf ies "The earl of Arundel s rig 
ever, the great Mæcenas of that age, and by ee en 
tions he made of antiquities, eſpecially his fampusmarue | 
tions, may ſtand upon a footing, as te the encouragement Kon. 
lity of literature, with the greatelt of the mediceat ey | 
and his court, had little or no reliſh for poetry uu ſuc! bolt 
generoſity in encouraging genius and wert or every tin 
inereaſed the ſalary of Ris pdet laureat, . the famous Ben 
from 100 marks to 100 l. per annum, auch a tierce Span 
which ſalary is continued to this dag. Meat 
The public encouragement of learning; and the an 8 ie 
deed an eclipſe, during the time of the civil wars, and 4 4 
ing uſurpation. Many very learned nien, however, (00 | 
tuations under Cromwell, though he was dc Kranze * 
tical ſentiments, ſo eaſy, that they followed their ftv 
great beneſit of every branch of learning, ud many = 4 


- 


* | , — : — 
vin 0 2 N D. we 154 CN 
| was <a enn 1 
+, appeared even in thoſe times of diſtraction. Uſher, 
. hap Wilkins, and a prodigious. number of other 
wats, were unmoleſted by that uſurper, and he would even 
Adee univerſities with literary merit, could he have done it 
of ſafety to his government,” r. 
wen of Charles III was chiefly diſtinguiſhed by che great 
bo which it carried natural knowledge, eſpecially by the 
ia of the royal ſociety, The king himlelf was an excellent 
Thoſe ludies, and though irreligious himfelf,” England ne- 
Wed more with learned and able divines, than in his reign. 
{painting and poetry, but was far more munificent to the 
Sas the latter. The incomparable Paradife Loft by Milton, 
liked in his reign, but ſo little read, "that the impreſſion did 
ür expence of 15 l. given by the Bookſeller for the copy. 
iy of Charles IT, notwithſtanding the bad tafte of his court 
of the polite arts, by ſome is reckoned the Anguſtart age” 
Wd, and is dignified with the names;of Boyle, Halley, Hook, 
mn Hervey, Temple, 'Tillotfon, "Butler, Cowley, Waller, 
Vycherley, and Orway. © The Pulpit! aſſamed more ma- 
Fetter ſtile, and truer energy, than it ever had Known be- 
(lc literature recovered many of its native graces, and 
England could not under him boaſt of a Jones, and a Van- 
ke dir Chriſtopher Wren introduced a more general regulari- 
wer had been known before in architecture, and many ex- 
Lagliſh painters (tor Lely and Kneller were foreigners) flou- 
© this rei J. ah g 3 
of hs If though he likewiſe had a taſte for the fine Arts, 
hdilioguifhed in the province of fiterature, by thoſe compo» 
Mat vere publiſhed by the Engliſh divines againft, popery, 
kb, for ſtrength of reaſoning, "and depth of erudition, never 
led in any age or country, ly 0 
antes of Newton and Locke adorned the reign of William 
Face, who neither underſtood,” nor loved learning, or ge- 
ape. It flouriſhed, however, in his reign, Wee by 
Wency of the ſoil, in which it had been planted. It has 
red, that metaphyſical reaſoning, and a ſqueamifh ſcepti- 
Rigions matters, prevailed tag much, and this Has been 
Utributed to his indifference as to facred fubjects. Argu- 
* doverer, thereby acquired, and has fi preferved a fart 
oral tone in every. province of literature, than ic had before, 
a religion and philoſophy! © La ho AL ISS 
Wi uninformed readers are not unacquainted with the im- 
W which learning, and all the polite arts, received under 
r of Queen Anne, and which put her court, at leaft, on a 
M that of Lewis XIV. in its moſt ſplendid days. Many 
amen, who had figured in the reigns of the Stuarts and 
ere [till alive, and in the fall exerciſe of their faculties, 
= race ſprung up, in the republic of learning and the arts. 
, Pope, Swift, lord Bolingbroke, lord' Shafteſbury, 
* Congreve, Steele, Rowe, and many other ercellent 
L u veri2 and proſe, need but. be mentioned to be ad- 
a Engliſh were as triumphant in literature as in war. 
Yy Me Natural 


$41 $ E. N. G, L A; N. Da 


Natural and moral philoſophy kept Pace with the polite 
exen religiaus and political diſputes contributed to the ads 
of tearning,, by the unbounded, liberty which: the laws of 3 
allow in ſpeculative. matters. . 
The. miniſters of George I. were che patrons of erudi 
ſome of them were no mean proficients themſelves.” I hays 
obſerved, that. in this reign a poet held the pen of fel & 
ſtate, thongh Mr Addiſon's talents were very inadequate to 
and his temper {lill: more. . ** 
Though George II. was himſelf no Mezcenas, yet his x 
ed to none of the preceding, in the numbers of learned and 
ous men it produced, he bench of biſhops was never kno 
ſo well provided with able prelates, as it, was in dhe early 
his reign, a full proof that his nobility and mipilters were jo 
literary qualifcations. In other departments of \erudition, 
vour of the public generally ſupplied the coldnels of the co 
ter the rebellion in the year 1745, when Mr Pelham was cor 
as firſt miniſter, the ſereen between government and literary 
in a great meaſure removed, and men of genius began then 
the royal bounty. In this king's reign. the royal academies of 
wich and Portſmouth were elablilkcd; the firlt for. teachi 
ry. branch of the military ſciences ; the latter for; teachiq 
branches of the mathematics, which more immediately 
vigation- = 8 49 
The reign of his grandſon promiſes tq renewa golden agent 
ing and all the arts. The noble inſtitution of a royal acace 
his. majeRty's generous munificence to men of merit, in ev 
have already.thrown an illuſtrious refulgence round dis cor 
muſt endear his memory to future generations. 
Beſides learning, and the fine arts in general, the Engi 
in what we call, the learned profeſſions... Their courts of y 
adorned with greater abilities and virtues, perhaps, than thol 
any other country can boaſt of. A remarkable inlkance a 
occurs in the appointments for the laſt 200 years of their.lon 
cellors, who hold the higheſt. and the moſt uncontrowable 
ſeat in the kingdom, — yet it is acknowledged by all parti 
during -that time, their, bench has remained unpolluted by 
tion, or partial affections. The few inſtances that may de. 
to the contrary, fix no imputation of wiltul. guilt upon the 
The great lord chancellor Bacon was cenſured indeed for 
practices, but malevolence itſelf does not ſay. that he was 8 
farther than in too much indulgence to his fervants- The 
one of his ſucceſſors is ſtill more favourable to his-memory 
cenſure reflects diſgrace only upon his enemies, and his lor b 
in the eyes of every man of candour and conſcience, acqui 
only of actual but intentional guilt, Even Jafferies, ert 
was in his politics, never was accuſed of partiality in the ca 
came before him as chancellor. - 
It muſt be acknowledged, that neithe 


pulpit, nor bar-eq 
has been much ſtudied in England; but this is owing to the 


of the people and their laws. The ſermons of their e 
ten learned, aud always ſound as to the practical and * 


% 
- 4 


en LAND 2 
gary religions ſeas in England, require to be oppoſed ra- 
reaſoning than by eloquence. An unaccountoble notion has 


x prenailed eren among the clergy themſelves, that the latter 
ible with the former, as if the arguments of Cicero and 


nes were weakened by thoſe powers of language with 
they are adorned. A ſhort time, perhaps, may remove this 
Fn, and convince the clergy, as well as laity, that true e- 
$i the firſt and faireſt hand-maid of argamentation. The. 
kowever, is not to imagine that I am infinuating, that the 
Ach the Engliſh church, are deſtitute of the graves of elocu- 
b far from that, no clergy. in the world can equal them, in 
iy and perſpicuity of language, * I think that if the 
bd more than they do the powers of elocution, they woul 
with more effect. If the ſemblance of thoſe powers, coming 
& months of ignorant enthuſiaſts, 'are attended with the a- 
efeds we daily ſee, what muſt not be the conſequence, if 
we exerted in reality, and ſupported with ſpirit and learning. 
ws of England are of fo peculiar a caſt, that the ſeveral 
pat the bar, do not admit, or but very ſparinglys of the 
of ſprech, and I am apt to think that a pleading in the Cice- 
manner, wonld make a ridiculous appearance in Weſtmin- 
L The Engliſh lawyers, however, though they deal little in 
ker, are well verſed in rhetoric and reaſoning. Rey 
lumentary ſpeaking not being bound down to that precedent 
prequired in the courts of law, no nation in the world can 
2 many examples of true eloquence, as the Engliſh ſenate 
d honſes, witneſs the fine ſpeeches made by both parties, in 
ent, in the reign of Charles I. and "thoſe that have been 
ice the acceſſion of the preſent family. : 
Kine and ſurgery, botany, anatomy, and all the arts ar ſtu- 
preſerving life, have been carried into great perfection by the 
und every member of the medical profeſſion, is ſure of an 
W hearing at the bar of the public. The ſame may be ſaid 
ad theatrical exhibitions. Even agriculture and mechan- 
tow reduced in England to'ſciences, and that too without 
We encouragement, but that given by private noblemen and 
„ who affociate themſelyes for that purpoſe. - Ir: ſhip- 


1 and the various branches of cutlery, they 


. As to the language of the Englith, it is needleſs to ſay . 
te of it, than that it js compounded of Dutch, Latin, and 


We donot know whether any of the ancient Britiſh words 


8 are retained, 2 


& ard Curirfities, Natural and Artificial. ] The antiquities 
e are either Britiſh, Roman, Saxon, or Daniſh, and 
Mrmznnic : but theſe, excepting the Roman, throw no great 
cient hiſtory, The chief Britiſh antiquities, are thoſe 
"mes, particularly that called Stonhenge,. in Wiltſhire, 
A were places of ſacred worſhip in the times of the 
*mMenze is, by Inigo Jones, Dr Stukeley, and others, 
- & £ , deſcribed 


Conſiſts of two circles, and two ovale which are ths 
The upright tones are placed at chree feet and a half 30u 


i of chiſſel, and ſomething tap red . but the tranſomez, Or ove 


_ eighty ſcet in diameter; between which, and the next cred 


tions of, and diſſertations upon, this celebrated antiquity, 
nious writers, it is not to be denied, that it has given ric 


a favourite point of antiquity, ſometimes formed the mol x 
| ſome of them having been opened, and bones, arms, and 


wit in Cumberland, Oxfordſhire, Cornwall, Devonſkire, 


monumental inſcriptions, which inſtru& us as to the lego 


and Paſling through Kent to London, from thence g K 


to Cardigan. The great Via Militaris called Hermen- ting 


| deſcribing thoſe which paſs through Suſſex and Surry towal 


yo _ 


% K * G . 4 
deſcribed as a regular circular ſtructure. The body of 4 


ach other, and joined at top by. over-thwart ſtones, wi 
fitted to the mortiſes in the uprights; for keeping them ind 
poſition, ' Some of theſe, ſtones are vallly Jarge, mea 
yards in breadth, one in thickneſs, and above _Teven in be 
thers are leſs in proportion. The uprighes are wrought a | 


ſtones, are quite plain. The outſide circle is near one hoo 


$ a walk of three hundred feet in cireumference, which þ 
priſing and awful effect on the beholders.' After all ihe 


extravagant ridiculous conjectures, from the time of Lela 
has been very particular on the ſubject, down to Stukeley, 
tic 2 The barrows that are near this monum 
certainly graves of perſons of both ſexes, eminent in peace 


trinkets. fourd within them. 


Monuments of the ſame kind as that of Stonhenge, are jy am 
ny other parts of England, as well as in Scotland” and Ws cnc: 
which have been already mentioned, | | 


The Roman antiquities in England, confiſt chiefly of a 


tions of the Romans in Britain, and the names of ſome or tl this | 
manders. The Roman military ways give us the higheſt 
civil as well as military policy of thoſe conquerors.” Thar 
are numerous: one is mentioned by Leland as beginning 


Dunſtable, Stratford, Towceſter, Littheburn, de Gen 
Shrewſbury, then by Straton, and ſo through the ache 


from London through Lincoln, Where « branch of it; ir | 
fret to Doncaſter, ſtrikes out to the Wellward, palling tron: 
caſter to York, and from thence to Aldby, Where it aga ud 1 
Hermen-fſtreet, There would, however, he no end c 8 nd q 
the veſtiges of the Roman roads in England, many or mf 
as ſound.tions to our preſent highways- The great earl 
del, the celebrated Englilh antiquary, had formed a nodit 


don; but the %ivil war breaking out; put an end tothe M 
ing. The remains of many Roman camps are diſceraibi 
England. Their ſituations are generally ſo wet choſen, 
fortifications appear to have been ſo complete, that 
reaſon to believe, that they were the conſtant habitatons* 
inan ſoldiers in England, though it is certain from the | 
tellerated pavements, that have beęn found in dilferene 
their chief officers and magiſtrates, lived in towns or 


o 
* I 


i 


8 NG 'L & 8D. - - 35y 
\ ore likewiſe been found in England and, perhaps, up. 
eum of Wales, many remains of their fortifications and 
in blended with thoſe of a later date z and it is difficult for 
aper architect to pronounce that ſome halls and courts are 
«ly Roman. The private cabinets of noblemen and gentle 
1 well as the public repoſitories, contain a yaſt number of 
um, coins, fibulæ, trinkets,, and the like, that have been 
g Ecgland ; but the moſt amazing monument of the Roman 
i England, i3 the pretenture, or wall of Beyerus, common- 
dthe pits wall, running through Northumberland and Cum- 
| beginning at Tinmonth, and ending at Solway Firth, be- 
wt eighty miles in length. The wall at firſt conſiſted only of 
nd turf, with a ditch, but Severus built it with ſtone forts, 
s, at proper diſtances, ſo that each might have a ſpeedy 
wieatioa with the other, and it was attended all along by a 
b or vallum, to the North, and à military highway to 
„ This prodigious work, however, was better calculated 
£the Scots and Fitts wich terror, than to give any real ſecu- 
the Roman poſſeſſions. In ſome places, the wall, the vallum, 
be road, are plainly diſcernible, and the latter ſerves as 4 
yon for a modern work of the fame kind, carried on at the 
upence. A critical account of the Roman antiquities in Eng · 
y amon;; the deſiderata of hiſtry, but perhaps it is too 
p for any one man to execute, as it cannot be done wi 
perery place, and every object in perſon, - 
$z0n antiquities in England conſiſt chiefly in eccleſiaſtical 
b and places of ſtrength. At Wincheſter is ſhewn the round 
i ting Arthur, with the names of his knights. The antiqui- 
this table has been diſputed ly Camden, and. later writers, 
with reaſon 3 but if it is not Britiſh, it certainly is Saxon. 
hedral of Wincheſter ſerved as the burial place of ſeveral 
lug, whoſe bones were collected together by biſhop, Fox, in 
x wooden cheſts. Many monuments of Saxon antiquity, preſent 
al over the kingdom, though they are often not to be diſ- 
mom the Normannic; and the Britiſh muſeum contains ſeve- 
ng original ſpecimens of their learning. Many Saxon char- 
ped by the king, and his nobles, with a plain croſs inſtead of 
lanes, are ſtill to be met with, The writing is neat and le- 
ad was always performed by a clergyman, who affixed the 
nd quality of every donor, or witneſs, to his reſpeQiye croſs. 
Puilk ereclions in England are bardiy diſcernible ſrom the 
The forms of their camps are round, and generally built 
Wnetces, but their forts are ſquare. 
aylnd is ſull of Anglo Normannic monuments, which I 
i cal fo, becauſe, though dhe princes, under whom they 
were of Norman originath, yet the expence wes defrayed 
men, with Engliſh money. York-minſter, and Weſt⸗ 
Fal, and abbey, are perhaps the fineſt ſpecimens to be found 
F, 0 that Gothic manner which prevailed-in building. be- 
© Xovery of the Greek and Roman architecture. All the 
nd old churches in the kingdom, are more or leſs in 
wulle, if we except St Paul's. In ſhort; thoſe erections 
| . 1 1 are 


- 


are ſo commori, that they ſcarcely deſerve. the name 4 


At is uncertain, whether the artificial excavations, found 0 
parts of England, are Britiſh, Saxon, Or Norman. | wI 
the old caſtle of Ryegate in Surry, is very remarkable, þ de 
to have been deſigned for ſecreting the cattle and eſſe; g x 0 

tives, in times of war and invaſion. /'It contaits an 9, lin 
hall, round which runs a bench, cut out of the ſame rock, 
ting upon; and tradition ſays, | that it was the room in wi 110 
barons of England met, during their wars with king ſoly a( 
rock itſelf is ſoft, and very practicable ; but it is hard ts far & f 
the excavation, which is continued in a ſquare paſſape aboy pe 

; of 


|  Kighy/ and four wide, terminates, becauſe the work in falle 


The natural curioſities in England are ſo various; that Is 
upon them only in general; as there is no end of deſcribing 
veral medicinat waters and ſprings, which are to be bund 
part of the country. They have been analyſed with great 
and care, by ſeveral learned naturaliſts, who, as their ine 
inclinations: led them, have not been ſparing in recommend 
ſalubrious qualities. England, however, is not fingular in 
dicinal water, though in ſome countries the diſcovering and 
ining them is ſcarce worth while. In England; a much fre 
well or ſpring, is a certain eſtate to its proprietor, The 
markable of theſe wells have been divided into thoſe fort 
and thoſe for purging. The chief of the former lye in Homer 
and the bath waters are famous through all the world, | 
drinking and bathing, Spaws of the ſame kind are found a 
burough, and other parts of Yorkſhire ; at Tunbridge i 
Epiom and "Dulwich in Surry z Acton and Iflington in Mi 
Here alſo are many remarkable ſprings ; whereotſome are i 
nated either with falt, as that at Droitwich in Worceſter; 
phur, as the ſamons well of Wigan in 'Laneathirez of bit 
matter, as that at Pitchford in Shropſhire: Others have a] 
ing quality, as that near Lutter worth in Leiceſterſhire; and 
ping well in the Weſt riding of Yorkſhire. Aud finally, 
and flow, as thoſe of the Peak irf Derbyſhire and Layn« 
Torbay, whoſe waters riſe and fall ſeveral times in an hot 
theſe we may add that remarkable fountain near Kiehard 
in Herefordſhire, commonly called Bonewell, Which is ge 
full of ſmall bones, like thoſe of frogs or fiſh, though often 
out. At Ancliff, near Wigan in Lancafhire, is the famous 
well; the water is cold, neither has it any ſmell z Jet dhe 
ſtrong a vapour of ſulphur ifſuing out with the ſtream, tha 
applying a light to it, the top of the water is covered with 
like that of burning ſpirits, which laſts ſeveral hours, and. ; 
fierce a heat that meat may be boiled over it. The fluid 
not burn when taken out of the well“. "eb +4 

Derbyſhire is celebrated for many natural curioſities. 


This extraordinary heat has been found to proceed from a vein of co 
2 been ſuice. dug from under this well, at which time the uncomm⁰ 


4 


— 


7 
7 _— 


E NGO Li AG NDS :- aw: 


Tower, is ſaid to be continually —— = aways 
Wes. The Elden- Bale, about four miles m the: * 


; this is a chaſm in the fide of a mountain, near ſever 
+, and fourteen long, / diminiſhing in extent; within the 
+ of what depth is not known. A plummet once drew 884 
Tre after it, whereof the laſt 80 were wet, without — 
The entrance of Poole's hole near Buxton, for ſeveral 
f very low, but ſoon opens into a very loſty vault, like the 
i Gothic cathedral. The heighth is certainly very great, 
bort of what ſome have aſſerted, who reckon it a quarter 
gerpendicular, though in length it exceeds that dimenſion: 
© of water, which runs along t middle, adds, by its ſound- 
a re-ecchoed on all ſides, very much to the aſtoniſhment 
niit this vaſt concave, The drops of water which hang, 
roof, and on the ſides, have an amuſing! effect; for they 
þ neck numberleſs rays from the candles carried by the 
but as they are of a petrifying quality, they harden in ſeve - 
w into various forms, Which, with the help of a ſtrong 
tion, may paſs for lions, fonts, organs, and the like. The 
into that natural wonder, which is, from its hideouſneſs, 
the Devil's Arſe, is wide at firſt, and upwards of thirty feet. 
gular. Several .cottagers. dwell under it, Who ſeem in a 
alure to ſubſiſt by guiding ſtrangers into the cavern, which 
x by ſour ſtreams of watkr, and then it is thought impaſſable. 
|, in ſeveral places, makes a noble appearance, which is 
a beautiful, by being chequered by various coloured 
Theſe are the moſt celebrated natural excavations in Eng-. , - 
re they are beheld with great wonder, but are nothing 
* thoſe that exiſt in Germany, and other parts of Eu- 
ſpots of England are ſaid to have a petrifying quality. We: 
þ that near Whitby in Yorkſhire, are ſound certain ſtones, 
dg the folds and wreaths of a ſerpent ;, alſo other ſtones of 
nes, and ſo exactly round, as if artificially made for cannon. 
ca being broke, do commonly contain the-form and like» 
&pents, wreathed in circles, ' but generally without heads. 
parts of Clouceſterſhire, {tones are found, reſembling cockles, 
ud other teſtaceous marine animals. Thoſe curioſities, 
* in ther countries, would, as ſuch, make but a poor ap- 
| * — in England they are often magniſied by igno- 
A credulity. ; doth des 


Tant, Forts, and.other This head is ſo very exten- 

Be, public and private. . ſive, that I can only touch. 

F< hat can aſſiſt in giving the reader ſome idea of its im- 

* grandeur, or utility. | 

"rn, che metropolis of the Britiſh empire, naturally takes 
a the 


k __ n 51% zu north latitude, gco- miles ſouth of Edinburgh, 
bach 9 — 150 miles weſt of Amſterdam, 210 north-weſt of Pa- 
* Ci pennagen, 609 north-weſt of Vienna, 790 ſouth-weſt f 
"ny _ of Madrid, 820 north-weſt of Rome, 850 norch · eaſt of 
welt of Conſtantinople, and 1414 fouth-weſt of Moicow. 


—— — * 


4 — — 
—Z1—y— ——. ñ̃ —— — 
N # 


4 


2 * 


E N L A 
& in this diviſion ; it appears to have been founded 
| of Julius Czfar and Nero, but by whow i 6 
told by Tacitus, that it was a place of You 
ir te 


+44 
4 


s time, and ſobn after became the capital of. 

, about with hewn Ronies/ and Britiſh bricks 
Great, and the walls formed an oblong ſquare 
three miles, with ſeven principal gates. be . 
it a biſhop's fee ; for it appears that the biſhop of 
at the council of Arles, in the year 314: he alſo fn 
it, as is plain from ſome of his coins. 

London, in its large ſenſe, including Weſtminfter,'& 
part of Middleſex, is a city of u very ſurpriſing extent 
digious weakh, and of the moſt ettenfive trade This 6 
conſidered with all its advantages, is now what anciett $i 
was ; the ſeat of liberty, the encouruger of arts, and the 
tion of the whole world, London is'the center of trade; 1 
intimate eonneRion with all the countries'in the kingdoms 
grand mart of the nation, to which every part ſend their d 
ties, from whenee they again are ſent back into every 1 
nation, and to every part of the world. From henee ina 


Hir 
Rt 


_ carriages, by land and water, are conſtantly employed; 


henee ariſes that circulation in the national body; "which i 


very part healthful, vigorous, and in a proſperous” tout 
Circulation that is equally beneficial to the head; aud d 


tant members. Merchants are here as rich as noblenient 


5 their incredible loans to government ; und there is 30 phit 


world where the ſh tradeſmen make fuck a noble and 
pearance, or are better ſtocked. 8 


lt is ſicuated on the banks of the Thames, u Fer which 


not the largeſt, is the richeſt and moſt commodious e cn 
any in the world. It being continually filled with erte, 
or from the moſt diſtant climates ; ant its banks being tn 
don-bridge to Black- wall, almoſt one continued great mag 
naval ſtores, containing three large wet docks, thirty-twod 
and thirty-three yards for the building of ſhips for che u 
merchants, beſide the places allotted for the building of i 
lighters ; and the king's yards lower down the river tor the 
men of war. As this city is about fixty miles diſtam ens 
it enjoys, by means of this beautiſul river, alt the benefits 


. gation, without the danger of being ſarprized by foreign 


of being annoyed by the moilt. vapours of the ſea.” I 
ly from the water ſide, and extending itſelf om bob hae 
banks, reaches a prodigious length From Eaſt to Welt in 


amphitheatre towards the North, and is continued forma 


miles on all ſides, in a ſucceſſion of magniheent villas, aud 


villages, the country ſeats of gentlemen and tradelmen; 


latter retire for the benefit of the freſh air, and to relaxt 


from the hurry of buſineſs- The regard paid by the legit 


the property of the ſubject, has hitherto pregented any 
ing affixed for its extenſion, FR ; 

he irregular form of this city makes it difficult nt 
extent. However, its length fron. Eaſt to Well, is genere 


% 


= = * 
a 


——— — 
= — 


miles, from Hyde- park 
— three, in others two :; and in others again 
ore half a mile. Hence the circumference of the-whole 


— — 
— 


- — 


Ge. 33 Baptiſt meetings : 

0 — * 1 19 — 
meeting-houſes gn 

— and three Jews ſynagogues. So that there 
nes devoted to religious worſhip, in the compals of this 
U building, without reckoning the 24 out-parithes,. uſually 
vithin the bills of mortal. 
tre alſo in and near this city, 100 alms - houſes, about 20 
ind infirmaries, three colleges, 10 public priſvns, 15 fleſh» 
one market for live cattle, two other markets more parti» 
herbs; and 22 other markets for corn, coals, hay, &c- 


u the tem le, Oc. three 
ſchools, babes free ſchools ; 134 charity ſchools, 
de education for 5034 poor children; 207 inns, 447 tas 
n eoffee-houſes, 5975 ale-bouſes 4 1000" ——— 
þ chairs; 7000 Rreets, lanes, courts, and 8, x 
bocling-houſes, containing, as has been already obſerved, 
$06,000 inhabitants, who, according to a late eſtimate, 
annally the following articles of prov : 3 
cattle 4 IT — — 98,244 
711,123 


— — 
— — 


1 


% Y 
- 
= ig - 
* 4 - 
: - , 
—_-o 008 > OY” e -p , ]§‚ ] ” — ͤ——ꝛ—ꝛ ˙ — —L'—ë—ũä—— — —— — — — — — 
- — — — 


— 


— — = \ 
. 


- 


186,932 
52,000 


— 
— — 
—ͤ ô—— 


uud wild owl innumerable * Zaun | 

Wd at Billingſgate — — - 144,740,000 
wſdels — — 115,36 
n with cod, haddock, whiting, Sc. over | 

me thoſe brought by land cringe, 2a6þ 1,398 
pounds weight, abont 16,000,000 


Wantities of river and falt-fifb — 

Ad, about 3 | 20,000,000 

af milk — | | | 7,000,000 

C ſtrong bꝛer — — 15172494 
za}! beer — ä 798,495 

trig wines — 5 30,044 

Ina, brandy, and other diſlilled N 11,000,000 


Fright of candles, above — —— - 1 1,009,000 
bridge was firſt built of tone in the reign of Henry II. 
ſar 1163, by a tax laid upon wool, which in courſe of 
Ns to the notion _ was built upon wool-packs ; cw 

x | 


* | 2h 4 * * 
2 EN @ 4 ara. 
that time it has undergone many alterations and ire 
ticularly.fince the year 1756, when the houſes wege a 
and the whole rendered more convenient and heautiful | 
ſage for carriages is 31 feet broad, and ſeven ſegt on 
foot 5. It croſſes the Thames Where it is 915 fe 
and has at preſent 19 arches of about. 20 feet wide tach, b 
ter one is conſiderably large. 0 
Meſtminſter- bridge is reckoned one of the moeſt mne 
gant ſtructures of the kind in the known world. It is by 
gf ſtone, and extended over the river at a ple where; 
feet broad ; Which is above 300 feet broader than gt Lond 
On each ſide is a fine balluſtrade of ſtone, withplaces of f 
the rain. The width ef the bridge is 44 ſeet, havingon 
= fine foot way for paſſengers... It conſills of 4 plereand 
and two ſmall arches, all-ſemi-cireulary that in the center 
feet wide, and the reſt decreaſing : ſaut ſeet each ſrum the 
that the two leaſt arches of the gent ones; ue each 
is computed that the value / of 30,000 Lin None, aud othe 
als, is always under water. This magnificent ſtrafture 
in 1738, and finiſhed in 17530, at the expence of 300000 
by the parliament. 1 l 
Black- friars bridge falls nothing ſhort of that-of Welkaj 
ther in magnificence or workmanſhip; but the fituation of 
on the two ſhores, obliged: the architect to\employ-elliptic 
which, however, have a very fine effect; and many un 
judges, prefer it to Weſtminſter- bridge, This bridge uz 
1760, and finiſhed, in 17%, at the expence gf 152860 
charged by a toll upon the paſſangers, It is ſituated al 
— diſtance between thoſe of Weſtminſter and London, 
a view of the Thames from the latter do Whitehall, and 
the majeſty of St Paul's in a very ſtrikiug manner. 
The cathedral..of St. Paul's is the molt capacions,.m 
and regular Proteſtant church in the-world. .Thedengtt 
Foo feet; and its height, from the marble pavement. ts 
on the top of the cupola, is 340. It is built of Portland 
cording to the Greek and Roman orders, in the ſorm of a 0 
the model of St Peter's at Rome, to which in fome.repet 
perior.: St Paul's church is the principal work og F 
Wren, and undoubtedly the only work of the'ſame-map! 
ever was compleated by one man. Hei lived" to a gen 
finithed the building 39 years aſtet he hicmſell laid dle fl 
takes up fix acres of ground, though the whole length ot 
meaſures no more than the width of St Peter s. The ep 
building it after the fire of London, was defrayed by 
coals,” and is computed at a million ſterlingg 
Weſtminſter-abbey, or the collegiate church of Welt 
venerable pile of building, in the Gothic tate. It was 
Edward the conteflor King Henry III. rebuilt. it 24 
and Henry VII. added a fine chapel to the Ealt end 
the repoſitory of the deceaſed Britiſh. kings and nobility 
are alſo monuments erected to the meniory. ob many En 
luſtrious perſonages, commanders by ſen and land, f 


I & . * 7 / : ” 4 — * 


* 


0 


11 m G LA A N DU 58 
u the reign of Queen Agne a year, out of the 


0 gas granted by parliament for keeping ie in repair. r 


iude of the church of St Stephen's Walbroak, is admired. 


binds and elegance, and dbes honour to the memory of 
oder Wren. The ſame may be ſaidcof, the. Stecples of Sti 


Le. 30d St Bride's) Which art ſuppaſed' to be the moſt 


u their kind of any in Europe, chonghl architecture has 


10 rules for ſuch erections. Few churches in or about 


ge without ſome beauty. Phe (ſimplicity of dhe portico in 


is worthy the pureſt ages of ancient ate hitecture. 


I Martin's in the Fields would be noble and ſtriking, could 
om a proper point of view. Several of the new churches 

in an elegant taſte, and even ſome of the chapels have 
ind proportion to recommend them. The Banquetting - 
Whitehall, is but a very ſmall, part of à noble palace, de- 
paige Jones, for the royal reſidence, and as it now ſtands, 


in diſadvantages, its fymmetry, and -orngtaents; are in 


" 


i (file and execution of architeQure, e. 
naler -hall, though on the outüde it makes a mean, and no 

Nutz geous appearance, is a noble Gothic building, and is 

V the largeſt room in the world, it being 220 feet long, and 


L Its roof is the fineſt of its kind that can be ſcen, Here 


the coronation feaſts of our kings and queens 3 alſo. the 


I chancery, king's-bench, and common: pleas, and above 
e v3 e >: 11 


ſat of the exche quer a OP - 
bezutiful column, called the Monument, erected at the charge 


ity, to perpetuate the memory of its being deſtroyed. by fire, 


wrthy of notice. This column, which is of the Doric or- 


eds all the obelidks and pillars of the ancients; it Being 202 


V vith a ſtair caſe in the middle to aſcend to the balcony, 
about 30 ſeet ſhort of the top, from hence there are other 
We for perſons to look out at the top of all, which is fa- 
lie an urn, with a flame iſſuing from it, On the baſe of 
inet, next the ſlreet, the deſtruction of the city, and the 

to the ſufferers by Charles II. and his brother, is em- 


a repreſented in baſs relief. The North and South ſides 


le, have each a Latin inſcription, the one deſcribing its 
(folation +, and the other its ſplendid reſurrection; and 
ide is an inſcription, ſhewing when the pillar was be 
2 re 


en be thus rendered : * In the year of Chriſt, 1666, Sept 2, Eaſt- 
\ at the diſtance of 203 feet (the height of this column) a terrible 

Rt wont midiight ; which driven ou ty a high wind, not only waſtcd 
parts, but alſo very remote placet, with incredible crackling and fury. 
0 churches, the city gates, Guildhall, many public ſtructütes, hoſpi- 
. vaſt number of ſtately edifices, 13, ooo dwelling-bouſes, and 
* 26 wards it utterly deſtroyed 16, and left eight others ſhattered 
* The ruins of the city were. 430 acres, from the Tower by the 
© 0 the Temple church; and from the North-Eaſt along the wall to 

WS. To the eſtates and fortunes of the Citizens it was mercileſs, but to 

d Purable, that it might in all things feſemble the laſt conflagration 

1 De deſtruction was ſudden : for in a fmall ſpace of time the city 
Wiſting, and reduced to nothing. Three days aſter, when this pat 


Z . OW {TOES Oo Oo. 
— — — — —— — — 


_—_— 


1 


„ 70 * N 0 L 4 N 


and fniſbed. The charge of erecting this wh 
| 1 Sir Chriſtopher Wren in 167, and fr 
in 2677, amounted to upwards of 13, 


The Royal CT SER ca " 
have coſt above 80,000 
Te terrace in the Adelphi would do honour to the ys 


ee and: has laid open oe d the ine) yu 


We might here give @ deſcription of the Tower , Buik 
Jand, the New-trealury, the Adee r obe and kei 


1 hoc 

Abe el aff eb lese coun and eee bade 1 

In examining the curioſities of the Tower of Londan, it — dons 

with thoſe on the ourſide the principal ; the firſt thin 1 0 1 
wilie is tho wild 'beyd}e; which, nan fiequtivn; 6r# wines 


gate, gi, ad pſi hats ll 1 
N before pee you, which 8 Frome * 
another dver the dgor which leads to their d 4 * c 
hene —— wry Fore | _ 


of the Tower, ang contains houſes | | 
4 the pal gate you ſee | ; * 
is is a large, W 5 ieregular ; kt. 
„no one fide anſwering to another, 
IO One ob t * 
tory. In the firſt Rory Tr | 4 
A arious forts of arms, 7 oh 
the ps; 1 — are many cloſets aud a 
ines and inftraments of death. Over this are two ot riael v4 
— the other wich arms and other 


dic k- cheveaux de Is the 
— dc and in a ittle room, called Jolins Cocker 
ſome records, contal perhaps py. ancient uſages and 507 the 


this building are alſo the inotab of the ne · invented engines of 
that bave from time to time been preſented: to the government. Near the 
angle of the White Toner, is the Spaniſh armoury, in which aredepgited! 
- what was vainly called the Invincible Armada ; in onder to perpetuue'0 
rity, the memory of that figoal victory, , tained by by the Engliſh over the 
Rn Spain, in the roigm of Philip 
Lou come paw to the grand — a 
ite Tower, that extends 2.45 | 

ing g James II. We. built it to u 
* bo erefted that magnificent room "called the N „ Of 
that prince, with n Mary, his conſort, dined in 
warrant workmen and labcurers to attend them, dreſſed 
the uſual badges of the order of maſon To this nohle room 

ing 207, „ adjoini * the Eaſt end of the Tower cha 
ſt of go eaſy ſteps. On the left fide of the up 
thop, in which are conſtantly employed about. 14 furbiſbers, in 
and new-placing the arms. On entering the armoury * 
derneſs of arms, fo — diſpoſed, that. at A 
80,000 men, all bri ght, and fit for ſervice: a light 
without tt and beſides thoſe expoſed to 1 there _ 
wer, 16 cheſts ſhut up, each cheſt holding abont. 1,200 myskets. this 
original! diſpoſed by Mr Harris, who eqntrived to place them 0 

here and in the guard chamber of Hampion-cour. 
un- with; dur after he had performed this work, which is the ® 
le pf all rations, he was allowed a penſion from the crown for his os 
Upon the ground floor under the ſmall. GOD is a gal. yer en. 

ſtons with that, ſypported by 20 pillars, all g w wich 5 


12 1 7 2. =" 4. = $4. 


_- 


5 


— 


= 7 & & & © 


— 


7 


1 M n uw - 
| wil, the Manfion- honſe of the lord- mayer, nayor, the extife>ol- 
« heute, and a vaſt number of other public buildings; be- 
, nt edifices raiſed by our nobility 3 as Buckingham. 
| b-houſe, and lord Spencer's, in $3 James's park; 
r „ * 00 310.4 WC) 


PF 16 


* ox 2 77 + 1 | y 


ahich is a4 feet highs bas a paGage in the middle 16 feet wida At the 
«hs naciety of the molt dreadful engines of deſtruction, before whole thun- 
nol} ſyperd edifices, the nobleſt werks of art, and number of the human 
gl together in one common aud undiſtinguihed ruin, one cannot help 
a tho horrible inventions had AL Ein, Hike « falſe conception, in che 
Nature, never to have been ripened inte birth, = 
* is a plain brick building, a little euſtward of the White Tower, 
edibce convenient that elegant, where the ſpeCtator Is entertained” 
wprcſencarion of thoſe kings arid heroes of gur own nation, with "whoſe g 
ks it is to be ſuppoſed he is well acquattited,; ſome of em "equipped and 
iet bak, in the fame bright and ſhining armour they were ufed to wear 
er performed thoſe glorious actions that give them a diffinguiſtt.d place in 
if ina. 7 | , ard 4 | | 
wwe 500 to the line of Kings, whieh Angora ns vb gs, od 
i chronology, © that in : we muſt — the laſt firft. | 
lt, Hong, ſtone room, about 25 part to the ea ** the grand fore» 
« ev armoury, the crown jewels are depoſited. I. im perfaf crown, 
Wa & pceteuded that all the Kings of England have beer crowned fince 
the „in 1942. kt is of gold enriched” wir diamonds, rabies, eme-' 
nes and pearls : the cap within is of purple velvet, Vet with wiite raf- 
ip with three rows of ermine. are however miſtaken in ſhewing rhis 
akt imperial diadem of St Edward ; that, wit che other molt ancient 
a kingdom, was kept in the arched toom in the cloiffers'in Weſtminſter 
fl the grand rebelFon ? when in 1647, Harry Martin,” by order of the 
key, broke open the iron cheſt in which it was ſecured; took it thence, and 
| with the robes, ſword, and ſreptre, of St Edward. However, af- 
ation, king Charles II. had one made in imitation, of it,” which. i at 
Il. The golden orb or globe, put inte the King's r band before he 
; and borne in his left hand with the ſceptre in his right, upon his re- 
Velminſter-hall after he is erombed. It is about fix inches it diameter, 
th pearls, and enriched with precious ſtones. On the top is an amethyſt, 
| colour, near an inch and an half in height, ſer with a rick croſs of gold, 
vith dizmonds, pearls, and precious ſtories. The whole height of the 
k 11 inches. III. The golden ſeptre, with its croſs ſet upon à large ame- 
peat ralue, garniſhed round with tablediamonds. The handſe of rhe ſcep- 
jan, but the pummel is ſet round with rubies, emeralds and ſavell dia mands. 
les into 2 fleur de lis of fix leaves, all enriched with precious ones, foo. 
ſhes 2 mound or ball, made of the amethyſt already mentioned; The croſs 
ered with precious ſtones, IV. The ſceprre with the dove, the emblem 
perched on the top of a ſmall. Jeruſalem croſs, finely ornamented with ta- 
6 ind jewels of great value, This emblem was firſt uſed by Edward the 
| appears by his al; but the ancient ſcepter and dave was ſold with the 
Re tepalia, an this now in the Tower was made'after the reſtoration. V. 82 
If, four fee: ſeven inches and a half in length, and tlizee inches. three 
ku circumference, all of beaten gold, which is carried before the King, at his 
* VL The rich crown of ſtate, worn by his majeſty in parliament ; in 
$1 lage emerald ſeven inches round; a pearl ed the fineſt in the 
Waruby of incſtimable value. VII. The crown belbnging, 10 his royat 
le priace of Wales, The king wears his crown upon bis head while he fits u- 
+ but that of the prince of Wales is placed before him, to ſbew t 
come 10 it. VIII. The late queen Mary's crown, globe, and ſcepter, 
= (be wore at her coronation with her conſort king Wiliam III. IX An 
=, vith a dove on the top, made for King James II.“ queen, whoſe 
t and the dove on the top gold, enamelled with. whe. X. 
ward of. mercy, which has a blade thirty-two inches long, and near two 
Kaen e point, and is borne naked before the king at his coronation, be, 
ſwords of juſtice, ſpiritual and temporal. XI. The golden ſpurs, and 


Pu, which ate bracelets fyr- the wriſts. Theſe, though very antique, are 
worn 


\ 


\ 


«6 | BH NM &. L! A Nx 


houſes in the Strand; the houſes of -the;-dukes* of Nee 
Queenſberry; of lord Bateman; of general Wade in Sail 


the golden ſpoon that the biſhop. pours. the, oil into. Theſe ata tas ol 
| 1 The golden 89 f 1 the de ſtal, is about nine L. 
1 


times is in no degree equal to it. It is of gold, and uſed only on the Ting? 


King Charles II. by the town of Plymouth, / very curteug Sioughs, | 
in the jewel office, al! the crawn jewels worn hy the prigee and pricells & 


jects, privileges and immunities granted to cities and” corporations during t 


„ 


he earl of Cheſterficld's houſe, near Hyde pat z dhe dui 
vonſhire's, the earl of Coventry's, and the late earl-of þ, 
Piccadilly; lord Shelburne's, in Berkeley ſquare; Nonhuoks 


the earl of Granville's, Mr Pelham's, the duke of Bedford! 


» © X : 
Montague-houſe in Bloomſbury ; the two houſes lately ct 
* 11 ; b s : 2 17 7 8 © v . it Vis: + 4 1 © . | 


. 11 


It» brit a6 


, : | e RY | * *  & * WR 0 " * 
d at the, coro:ation, XII. The ampullay. or eagle of: | 
hich holds the holy oil the kings atid qucens of K. 2 fog * 


wt 


wings expand about ſeven inches. The,whole weighs abouttes ouncei 
of the eagle ſcreys off about the middle of, the neck, which is made hollow, 
ing the holy dil; and when the king is anointed- by the bie, the oil is po 
the ſpoon out of the bird's bill. XIII. A rich falt-cellar of e form 
quare White Tower, and fo exquiſitely wyrught, that the workmanihip of 


the coronation,  'XIV._ A noble ſilver font, double gilt, and elegantly 
which the royal family are chriſteqed, XV. A large e tougtain, ped 


inferior in beauty to the above. Beſides thele, which are commonly thewn, 


tions, and a great, varicty of curious old plate, 
The Record Of ro 
room, where the rolls are kept. Theſe are all handfomely wainſcated, the 


: 


conſiſts of three rooms, one aboye zyother, andah 


- 


\ being none into preſſes round each room, within which are ee Fee age 
ſor. th 


e records, and for the caber finding of them, - the year of each w nth 
ſcribed on the inſide of theſe preſſes, and the records "placed apcordingy. _ 
theſe preſſes, which amount to 56 in number, are depolited all" the rolls} 
firſt year of the reign of Rag John, to tbe Beginning of the reign of Rig 
but thoſe after this laſt period are kept in the „ chanel The records is the 
among - other things, contain, the foundation of abbies, "and /qther 
houſes; the ancient tenures of all tht lands in England, with x ſaryey of the 
the original of laws and ſtatutes, proceedings of the courts of comma i 
quity, the rights of England, to the dominion of the ee e, "Ja 
treaties with foreign princes, the atchievments of England in ze wars 
tlement of Ireland, as. to law and dominion, the forms of fue of k 
tiſh kings, for territories held in England, ancient grants of our kingsto 


abgve-mentioned, enrollments of charters and deeds made before the coop 
bounds of all the foreſts in England, with the ſeveral reſpeRtiverights or 8 
tants to common paſture, and many other impörtant 'records, all regwany been 
and referred to in near a thoufand folio indexes; This efhice is Kept opa, 
tendance conftantly given, from ſeven o'clock till one, except.in the moun 
cember, January and February, when it is open only from eie ie em ters 
and holidays excepted, A ſearch here 18 a gvined, for w ich you 
any one ſubject a year. Cat AMA went * 
1 Britiſh Muſeum is depoſited in, Montague-houle. | Sit Hons Ska 
(ho died in 175 3) may not improperly be called the founder or the Britiſh 
for its being eſtabliſked by parliament, was only in conſequence of his e 
will his noble collection of natural hiſtory, Ris large library ,; e r 
ri6lities, which coſt him 50,000 1. to the uſs of the public, on hem 
liament would pay 20,000 |. to his executors. To this collecion war a 
tonian library, the Harlcian manuſcripts, collected by the Oxford nen, ons. 
chaſed likewiſe by the parliament, and a collection of books given by the 
Eduards. His late majeſty, in conſideration of its great feen was 
pleaſed to add thereto, the royal libraries of books and manuſcripts colle ty; 
ſeveral kings of England. ko ta . 
The Sloanian collection conſiſts of an amazing number of en * | 
which are, the library, including books of drawings, manuſcripts, 4 
mounting to about $0,000 volumes. Medals, and colas, ancient and 00s 


" 


* 
is 


EN s LE 4 1 D. 
egen, with great mute d 


eee 10 YOTIOT 71s _ 

| ply, applied uk abandance af, 

| an Tame and the Ae — which is „ only Ad W 

—*＋ 3 amily, but means 

om the keys of which are depolited "ih th 

he city is, in a great meaſure, ſecured from 254 
r theſe plugs are no ſooner nne. 

mater to ſu ply, the engines. desi 

plenty Tae water. bas beg anended. with, another. advantage, 
n riſe to ſeveral companies, "WP 2 and 

| atage that 1s not to met w in. any other na- 
pe = 3 A 

E 


he has inſured... TS 
i 45 and advantage of — * 3 is conſidered as 
al concern, it will be found tobe of the utmoſt conſequence, 
fag the welfare of magkind,. as that attention to it, which 
pgement will produce, mult neceſſarily ſtimulate, the powers 
ation and ingenuity, and of . courſe create e 4 * ent ſot 
waders of artilts, who, excluſive of the rewar of their abi» 
cannot fail of Ag out * things * > wks do. e 


42 F119 31'S -þ a N a 
e 4 100, 7 4 268. 2 "3g 1 Ke. 54% 
$ 


\ 1,125. Precious ſtone z, agates, jaſper, &c. 2,3 Mctals, minerals, 
1,745, Cryſtals, ſpars, Ke. 80. Fd Foſſils, flints, ſtones, 1 ou 
kinds, falts, t, 0 33. Bitumens, ſulphurs, ambers, &c. 399. 
mk, ſpunges, &c. 1,421. Teſtacen, or ſhells, & 5,843 Echiol, 
ke. 659, . Alteriaci trochi, entrochi, &c. 241. Cruſtaceae, crabs, lob- 
363. Stellae marinae, tar-fiſhes, Kc, 173. Fith, and their parts, &c. 1,585. 
A their parts, eggs, and neſts, of different ſpecies, 1%. "Quadrupeds, 
+ Vipers, ſerpents, &. 52x. © Inſefts, &. 3,439. 2 12,506. 
_- volumes of dried plants, 334-- Humani, as calculi, anatomical 
„ 756. Miſcellaneous things, natural, 2, 96. Mathematical inſtru- 
i; of all the above is written in a number of large volumes. 
tens of infurance are as follows, viz. every perſon inſuring, ſhall pay 
$160 |, infured on goods, incloſed in brick or ſtone — 
as to ation, or kind of goods — 1569 


” 
— — — 
. . > " 


6 and half e — n at” 4 
Os, and hazardous [bets —— 


FF ool. inſured on goods, incloſed 10 po part . and part _— 
"+ a5 to o faden. or kind of | gouds fn 
bn, and half 1 hazardous — 
mul bazerdous 
® |. inſured on goods, incloſed in timber 
_ as to ſit uat Ge 4 or kind of goods | 


Nw half hazardous 5 $000 STS 2 
id tardous — nir Be * © 


n 5 double upon any ſum between cava 1 204 


— bree thou and pounds. 


— 


89 2 © ws = Sw »v one. w 
o 60 060 Swouwdgadsdo "FD 8. 


b 


* 
2 
r , §Ü—o)Ä . . ——_— F ²⁵˙wàöYÄ —ͤʃ]ͤ * ̃—ʃube e x ¶ 
— — — — — — — — — —_—_ — —— - 
— — — — mM - a a — — — - 
— — 
— 


—_ 


= 


J : N 
1 4 , l 

' 4 
i * . 1 1 0 
E D 
= f b 


to chemſelves, and to their country, This eonfdew; 
| withoug "doubt highly worthy of a" comercial” people; 4 


which gives the e to one. country, in e 

ther, and ie is this whick diſtinguiliies the hols py 
mot ferien Wanner. 
Before the coi n in 1588, Londom {which fite 


at cities had ariſen from full beginn ) Was totally ing 
ines t, and unhealthy, ef "which tnixfortune 
melancholy proofs are authenticated in iter, und which, 
doubt, proceeded from the narrownelſs of the reti and the 
countable projections of the buildings, that cotifined the pu 
and joined with other circumſtances, ſuch as the want of wat 
© defed the city ſeatee ever free from" peltilential devaliatios. 
F Which conſumed the greateſt part Of the eſty, Arendt u K 
the inhabitants at that time, Wus produQive of eonſtquencs 
made atuple athends for the Toffes ſultained by divides; 
city aroſe on the rains of the old ; but; though ware rep! 
convenient, and healthful than the former, yet'by*o meat 
ed to the characters of magnificence or elegance, in fone pa 
as ſhall be hereafter mentioned, and it is ever to be mente 
was the infatuation of thoſe time) that the maguilicent, « 
3 and uſeful plan of the great Bir Chriſtopher Wren, was tots 
| | regarded and facrificed to the mean and felt views of pri 
_ -/ perty; ee 
| 
| 
| 


and to the nation in general ; for had that great urehites 
followed, what has often been aflerted; warn have been the 
the metropolis of this kingdom would inconteltably wen 
moſt magnificent and elegant city in the univerie, and 
quence muſt, from the prodigious reſort of forexgners of dn 
and taſte would have viſited it, have becotne a el 
riches to this nation. But as the deplorable” blindnets of 
has deprived us of ſo valuable an acquiſition, it is become 4 
ly neceſſary that ſome efforts ſhould be nate to render the 
plan in à greater degree  anſwetable to the charater of the 
and moſt powerful people in the world. | 
The plan of London in its preſent" tate, will in man! 
appear to very moderate judges, to be as mjngioions a cups 
can poſſibly be conceived for à city of trade and” commerce 
borders of ſo noble a river as the Thames. The wharls at 
on its banks are deſpicable and inconvenient beyondconcep 
any one who has a tolerable taſte; and. ſome idea of pu 
nificence, give himſelf the trouble of - colifidering the En 
buildings, quays, and wharfs, on both ſides the river ana 
Chelſea to Blackwall, on the one hand; and from Banenan 
wich on the other; and he will be immediately convinced 
is not one convenient, well-regulated ſpot (as the building 


are at preſent diſpoſed) either tor buſineſs or ele in th 
extent. After he has conſidered the tate of the oſt 
he may continue his obſervation upon the interior parts of 
and naturally turn his eyes upon thoſe uſeſul places th 
part of the world, Wapping, erhithe, aud 
contiguous to the Thames, and all eutirely deltiente 


\ 


IH 


” * ] * : *? '\ . 

E M G L A N 5. os 
convenience and utility, ſo very deſirable in commercial 
The obſerver may from hence direct his view to Tower-hill, 
"houſe, Thames ſtreet, Watling-ſtreet, and the paſſages 
-hridge 5 thence to the miſerably contrived avenues. into 
1, Whitechaple, and Moor-fields. _ He may conſider the 
of & Paul's, and other churches, that of the monument, 
Ales halls, and other public buildings, that are thruſt up 
1 and placed in ſuch a manner as muſt. tempt every fo- 
believe that they were deſigned to be concealed. The ob- 
bert take in alſ thoſe wretched parts which he will find 
© the Fleet-market : neceſſity will oblige him to proceed 
+bfeld, for the ſake of breathing a freſher air; and when 
onfidered « ſpot, capable of the greateſt advantages, bub 
of any, he may plunge into the deplorable avenues and hor- 
bes in that neighbourhood. He may thence. proceed to 
I gardens, through the ruins of which it he eſcapes without 

nay reach Gray's inn»lane 3 which, though one of the 
zyenues to this metropolis, is deſpicable beyond concep- 
From thence he may travel into Holborn, where the firſt ob- 
preſents itſelf to view, is Middle · row, a nuiſance univerſal- 
ed, but ſuffered to remain a public diſgrace to thee. fineſt 
London, He may hobble on with ſome ſatisfaction, until 
x at broad St Giles, where, if he can bear to ſee a fine ſi - 
erered with ruinous buildings, and inhabited by the molt 
ie objects that human nature can furniſh, he may viſit the 
From hence he may proceed: along Oxford-ſtreet, and 
nto the town on which hand he pleaſes, he will obſerve the 
uation covered with a profufion of deformity, that has been 
x on the public, for want of a general, well-regulated, limi- 
which ſhould have been enforced by commiſſioners ap- 
by authority, men of ſonnd judgment, taſte, and activity; 
lappily been the caſe, all the glaring abſurdities, which are 
h (taring in the faces, and inſulting the underſtandings of 
dl ſcience and taſte, would never have had exiſtence. But pri- 
erty, and pitiful, mean undertakings, ſuited to the capa - 
the projectors, have taken place of that regularity and ele- 
wich a general plan would have produced; and nothing in 
ſts ſeems to have been conſidered for twenty years paſt, but 
lol a few taſteleſs builders, who have entered into a com- 
with no other view than fleecing the public, and of exteud- 
Wilorting the town, till they have rendered it completely 
% From hence the obſerver, in his road to the city of 
„ may have a peep at St James's, the reſidence of the 
ral and reſpectable monarch in the univerſe : a prince, 
ſelf 2 lover of the arts, and under whoſe happy auſpices 
ral merit and ingenuity can never doubt of obtaining pa- 
ad encouragement. The obſerver will not be better ſatis» 
te has reached Weſtminſter, when he conſiders what 

e been done, and how little has been done, when ſo fine 
zu preſented itſelf, , From Weſtminſter-bridge he may 
wt into St George's Fields; one of the ſ. ſpots about 
Mich has not yet fallen a ſacrifice to the depraved taſte of 
3 A modern 


_— 
=_ 
by 4 
_ 
\ 

[ 

1 | N 

5 1 
1 


1 deſpicable ; but we have-the pleaſure to find, that the net 


Charles I. and diſſipated in the time of the civil wars. 


go 3 KN 6 W 


modern builders; here he may indulge himſelf with the 4 
tion of what advantageous things may yet be done for this] 
neglected metropolis.  - | 

From what has been-ſaid of the cities of London and w 
iter, there cannot remain the leaſt doubt but that their las 
gard to magnifieence; elegance, or conyeniency, is in ſuck; 


rendering them otherwiſe is now become a matter of 
cern to perſons in power; and that ſome general plan is k 
formed and obſerved for their improvement. In the cities of 
Berlin, Edinburgh, Rotterdam, and other- places, the gon 
takes cognizance of all public buildings, bota uſeful and 9 
tal. | 

We _ in this place take notice of the very elegant, 
and neceſſary improvement, by the preſent method of par 
enlightning the ſtreets, upon the plan of the High-ſtrect of 
burgh ; an improvement which is felt in the moſt ſenſible ma 
all ranks and degrees of people. The roads are continued f 
ral miles round upon the ſame plan; and, excluſive of lam 
larly placed on each fide, at ſhort diſtances, are rendered m 
by watchmen placed within a call of each other, who are 
from the weather by proper boxes. Nothing can appear m 
liant than thoſe lights when viewed at a diſtance, eſpecial 
the roads run acroſs ; and even the prineipal ſtreets, ſuch 
Mall, New Bond- ſtreet, Oxford - ſtreet, &c. convey- an idea 
gance and magnificence; upon the whole, there never was, Sear 
age or country, a public ſcheme adopted which reflects me 
upon government, or does greater honour to the perſon 
nally propoſed and ſupported. it. 

The-embanking the river, and many other improvements 
agitation, ſupported by gentlemen of taſte and pubhe pm 
reaſon to hope, that this hitherto negle&ed- metropolis will 
in point of beauty, conveniency, and elegance, what it is in 
and commerce, the glory of the iſland, the admiration of ere 
ger, and the firſt city on earth. 

Windſor caſtle is the only fabric that deſerves the name a 
palace in England ; and that chiefly through its beautiful at 
manding ſituation; which, with the form of its conſtruc 
dered it, before the introduction of artillery, _— 
ton court was the favourite reſidence of King William. It 
in the Dutch taſte, and has ſome good apartments, and, kev: 
for, lyes near the Thames. Both theſe places have ſome gt — 
tures; but nothing equal to the magnificent colleclion 8 


toons of Raphael, which, for deſign and expreſſion, are a 
the maſter-piceces of painting, have by his preſent mf 
moved from the gallary built for them at Hampton coun 
queen's palace, formerly Buckingham - houſe, in St James? 
The palace of St James's is commodious, but has the airs 
vent ; and that of Kenſington, which was purchaſed from un 
family by king William, is remarkable only for its garde 


E N La. 91 


in a grand taſte. Other houſes, though belonging to 
ae far from deſerving the name of royal, 


ders have been puzzled to account how it happens that the 
of the richeſt nation in Europe ſhould be fo indifferently, 
eſpecially as Charles I. whoſe finances were but low, com- 
b ſome of his fucceffors, had be lived undiſturbed, would 
han probably have compleated the auguſt plan which Inigo 
ow for 2 royal palace, and which would have been every 
ble to an Engliſh monarch's dignity, The truth is, his 
es II. though he had a fine taſte for architecture, diſſipated 
wes upon his pleaſures. The :reign of his brother was too 
ir ſuch an undertaking. Perpetual wars during the reigns 
z William and Queen Anne, left the parliament no money 
for a palace, The two ſucceeding monarchs were indiffer- 
to ſuch a piece of grandeur in England; and though ſeveral 
were drawn up for that purpoſe, yet they came to nothing, 
a three millions of money were neceſſary for carrying it 
xution. We have, however, every thing to expect during 
nt reign, when architecture and magnificence thine out in 
ul luſtre. : 
ld be needleſs, and, indeed, endleſs, to attempt even a 
me of the houſes of the nobility and gentry in the neighbour- 
of London, and all over the kingdom. They are by Ge more 
ad elegant than the ſubjects of any other nation can diſplay; 
j thoſe of the Duke of Devonſhire, the Counteſs of Leiceſter, 
Scarſdale, the Earl Temple, and Earl Pembroke, where more 
x of antiquity are to be found than are in the poſſeſſion of any 
u the world; Sir Grigory Page, the Earl of Tilney, and 
d of others equally grand and ſumptuous. But thoſe capital 
of the Englith nobility and gentry have an excellency diſtinct 
ut is to be met with in any other part of the globe, which 
al of them are complete without-and within, all the apart- 
ad members being ſuitable to each other, both in conſtruc- 
d furniture, and all kept in the higheſt preſervation, It of- 
ppens, that the houſe, however elegant and. coſtly, is not the 
jul object of the ſeat, which conſiſts in its hortulane and rural 
Ions, Viſtas, opening landſcapes, temples, all of them the 
that enchanting art of imitating nature, and uniting beauty 
Iaynihcence, p "_ 
Unot be expected that I ſhould here enter into a detail of the 
m2; of England; which, to ſay the truth, have little beſides 
mmerce, and the conveniency of their fituation, to recom- 
dem, though ſome of them have noble public buildings and 
 briol is thought to be the largeſt city in the Britith do- 
*, alter London and Dublin, and to contain about 100,000 
als. No nation in the world can ſhew ſuch dock-yards, and 
encies for the conſtruction and repairs of the royal navy, 
* (the moſt regular fortification in England) Plymouth, 
i Woolwich, and Deptford. The royal hoſpital at Green- 
© WPcrannuated ſeamen, is ſcarcely exceeded by any royal 
4 is magnificence and expence. In ſhort, every town in 
* ated tor ſome particular production or manufacture, to 
3A 2 which 


we. E NM GC L A Ml 
ped its buildings and appearance are generally fitted; my 
ngland contains many excellent and commodious fea. 
of them have an immediate connection with London, wh 

common centre of national commerce. 


Hiſtory.] It is generally agreed, that the firſt inhabitants 
tain were a tribe of the Gauls, or Celtz; that ſettled on thee 
ſhore; a ſuppoſition founded upon the evident conformity 
language, manners, government, religion, and-complexion, 
In the account I have given of the Jaws and conſtitution, 
found great part of the hiſtory of England; which I ſhall x 
repeat, but confine myſelf to the different gradations of event 
chronological order, connected with the improvements of a 
ences, commerce, and manufactures, at their proper peri! 
that in a manner ſuitable to the propoſed brevity of this work 

When Julius Cæſar, about fifty-two years before the | 
Chriſt, meditated a conqueſt of Britain, the natives, undo 
had great connections with the Gauls, and other people of 
tinent, in government, religion, and commerce, rude as th 
was. Cæſar wrote the hiſtory of his two expeditions, which 
tended were accompanied with vaſt difficulties, and attended 
advantages over the iſlanders, that they agreed to pay tribt 
plainly appears, however, from contemporary, and other 
as well as Cæſar's own narrative, that his victories were ine 
and indecifive; nor did the Romans receive the leaſt advanta 
his expedition, but a better knowledge of the iſland than tl 
before. The Britons, at the time of Cæſar's deſcent, were gr 
in time of war, by a political confederacy, of which Caſlibelar 
territories lay in Hertfordſhire, and ſome of the adjacent & 
was the head; and this form of government continued amor 
for ſome time. +" 

In their manner of life, as deſcribed by Cxſar, and the 
thors, they differed little from the rude inhabitants of the 
climates that have been already mentioned; but they certain) 
corn, though, perhaps, they chiefly ſubſiſted upon animal i 
milk. Their cloathing was ſkins, and their fortifications 
wood. They were dexterous in the management of their 
beyond credibility, and they fought with lances, darts, and 
Women ſometimes led their armies to the field, and were 
as ſovereigns of their particular diſtris. They fayoured 2 

enitor, or ſeniority, in their ſucceſſion to royalty, but ſet 
on the ſmalleſt inconveniency attending it. They painted ! 
dies with woad, which gave them a bluiſh or greeniſh 1 
they are ſaid to have had figures of animals, and heavenly 
their ſkins. In their marriages they were not very del 
they formed themſelves into what we may call matrimom 
Twelve or fourteen men married as many wives, and each 
in common to them all, but her children belonged to tac 
huſband. | 0 

The Britons lived, during the long reign of Auguſtus b 
ther in the allies than the tributaries of the Romans; but ti 
munications between Rome and Great Britain, being the 


Et N. GC LX N BY 373 


r Claudius Cæſar, about forty two years after che birth 
a \ndertook an expedition in perſon, in which he feems to 
ben ſucceſsful againſt Britain. His conqueſts, however, were 
4: Cradacus, and Boadicia, though a woman, made noble 
| 100 the Romans, The former was taken priſoner, after 
rate battle, and carried to Rome, where his undaunted be- 
before Claudius gained him the admiration of the victors, 
celebrated in the hiſtories of the times. Boadicia being op · 
in 2 manner that diſgraces the Roman name, and defeated, 
to ſurvive the liberties of her country; and Agricola, ge- 
5 Domitian, after ſubduing South Britain, . carried his arms, 
been already ſeen in the hiſtory of Scotland, Northwards, in- 
edonia, where As ſucceſſors had no reaſon to boalt of their 
& every inch of ground being bravely defended. During 
e the Romans remained in this iſland, they erected thoſe walls 
þ often mentioned, to protect the Britons from the invaſions 

Caledonians, Scots, and Pitts ; (the latter are thought to 
keen the Southern Britons retired Northwards) and we are 
that the Roman language, learning, and cuſtoms, became 
rin Britain. There ſeems, however, to be no great foun- 
þ for this aſſertion 3 and it is more probable, that the Romans 
bred Britain chizfly as a nurſery for their armies abroad, on 
tf the ſuperior ſtrength of body and courage of the inhabitants, 
diſciplined, That this was the caſe, appears plainly enough 
the defenceleſs ſtate of the Britons, when the government of 
recalled her forces from that iſland. I have already taken 
þ, that during the abode of the Romans in Britain, they intro- 
[into it all the luxuries of Italy; but it is certain, that under 
tbe Sonth Pritons became the moſt abjet ſlaves, and that the 
of liderty retreated Northwards, where the natives had made 
erefi/tance againſt the conquerors of the world. For though 
ons were unqueſtionably very brave, when incorporated 
tte Roman legions abroad, we know of no ſtruggle they made 
r times, for their independency at home, notwithſtanding the 
arvurable opportunities that offered. The Roman emperors 
paera's, while in this iſland, aſſiſted by the Bricons, were en- 
employed in repelling the attacks of the Caledonians and Picts, 
f appeared to have been in no pain about the Southern Pro- 


m the mighty inundations of thoſe barbarous nations, which, 
the names of Goths and Vandals, invaded the Roman empire, 
mute numbers, ſory, and danger to Rome itſelf “, The Ro- 
$015 were withdrawn out of Britain, with the flower of the 
pot, for the deſence of the capital and center of the em- 
a the Roman forces decreaſed in Britain, the Scots and 

* bad always oppoſed the progreſs ot the Romans in this 
nnced the more boldly into the Southern parts, carrying 

ad deſolation over the whole country. The effeminated Bri- 
de ſo habituated to ſlavery, and accuſtomed to have recourſe 
danns tor defence, that they again and again implored the 

return 


See the Introduction. 


374 E N G L AN 
return of the Romans, who as often drove back the invaders 
mountains and ancient limits beyond the walls. Buttheſe en, 
ſerved only to protract the miſeries of the Britons; and the 3, 
now reduced to extremities at home, and fatigued with the 
expeditions, acquainted the Britons, that they muſt no on. 
to them for protection, exhorted them to arm in their ou 
and, that they might leave the ifland with a good grace, f 
ſiſted the Britains in rebuilding with ſtone the wall of Seve 
tween Newcaſtle and Carlifle, which they lined with forts and 
towers; and having done this good office, took their laſt fare 
Britain, about the year 448, after having been maſters of t 
Fertile parts of it, if we reckon from the invaſion of Julius 
500 years. | 

The Scots and Pits, finding the whole ifland finally def 
the Roman legions, now regarded the whole as their prize, 
ed Severus's wall with redoubled forces, ravaged all befor 
with a rage and fury peculiar to Northern nations in thoſe age 
which a remembrance of former injuries could not fail to 
The poor Britons, like a helpleſs family, deprived of their 
and protector, already ſubdued by their own. fears, had a 
courſe to Rome, and ſent over their miſerable epiſtle ſor reli 
upon record) which was addreſſed in theſe words: To Actiu, 
Conſul: The groans of the Britons and told them, after other 
able complaints, That the barbarians drove them to the ſea, and 
back to the barbarians ; and they had only the hard choice left of 
by the ſword or by the waves. But having no hopes given tl 
the Koman general, of any ſuccours from that ſide, they! 
conſider what other nation they might call over to their reliel 
ave have from Gildas, who was himſelf a Briton {and geſcril 
degeneracy of his countrymen in lamentable ſtrains) but ve 
confuſed hints of their officers, and the names of ſome of their 
particularly one Vortigern, who ſtruck a bargain with two 
chiefs, Hengiſt and Horſa, to protect them from the Scots and 
The Saxons were in thoſe days maſters of what is now call 
Engliſh channel, and their native countries, comprehending 
dinavia, and the Northern parts of Germany, being over 
with inhabitants, they readily accepted the invitation of the! 
whom they relieved by checking the progreſs of the Scots and 
and had the iſland of Thanet allowed them for their reſident 
their own country was fo populous and barren, and the fertik 
of Britain ſo agreeable and alluring, that in a very little tim 
gift and Horſa began to meditate a ſettlement for thenelve 
freſh ſupplies of their countrymen arriving daily, the dauot 
became formidable to the Britons, whom, after a violent (tru 
near 150 years, they ſubdued, or drove into Wales, whet 
language and deſcendents ſtill remain. 

Literature at this time in England was ſo rude, that 
bur little of its hiſtory. The Saxons were ignorant of 1 
public tranſad ions among the Britons were recorded only 
bards and poets, a ſpecies of men whom they held in great 
tion. Nennius, who ſeems to have been contemporary Wt 
mentions, indeed, a few ſacts, but nothing that can be re 


PN GO IL. XK * 9 
« an ſorm 2 connected hiſtory. We can, therefore, only” 
lde names of Merlin, a reputed prince and prophet ; Pen- 
the celebrated Arthur, and Thalieſſin, whoſe works are 
te extant, with others of leſs note. All we know upon the 
1 tht aſter repeated bloody wars, in which the Britons 
ometimes the enemies, and ſometimes the allies of the Scots 
+; the Saxons became maſters of all England, to the South 
Lins, or rather Severus's wall ; but the Seots and Pits feem- 
yn maſters of all the territory to the North of that, though 
Fred the Britons, who had been driven Northwards, to be 
ed by their own tributary kings : an intermixture that has: 
great doubts and confuſions in hiſtory 3- which I ſhall not 
end to unravel, 
pre already given a ſketch of the conſtitution and government 
the Saxons imported into England, and which form by far 
A valuable part of their ancient hiſtory. | 
have no account of their converſion to Chriſtianity bat from 
priters, who generally endeavour to magnify the merits of 
neriors. According to them, Ethelbert, king of Kent, who 
| pre-eminence in the heptarchy, as being deſcended from 
„ married the king of France's daughter, and ſhe being a 
an, Pope Gregory the Great ſeized that opportunity to en- 


the converſion of her huſband to Chriſtianity, or rather to 


For that purpoſe, about the year 596, he ſent over to 
u the famous Auſtin, the monk, who probably found no 
lificulty in converting the king and his people; and alſo Se- 
ug of the Eaſt Saxons, who was baptized, and founded the 
In] of St Paul in London. The monk then, by his maſter's 
tempted to bring the churches of the Britons in Wales to a 
ity with that of Rome, particularly as to the celebration of 
; but finding a ſtout reſiſtance on the part of the biſhops and 
de perſuaded his Chriſtian converts to maſſacre them, which 
Wt the number of 1200 prieſts nnd monks, and reduced the 


* who were found in the heptarchy, to a ſtate of ſlavery; 


lome think gave riſe to the ancient villenage in England. 
$ accounted the firſt archbiſhop of Canterbury, and died in 
lis convert Ethelbert did ſoon after. 
es not fall within my deſign to relate the ſeparate hiſtory of 
kriicular nation that formed the heptarchy. It is ſufficient 
Wa! the pope, in Auſtine's times ſupplied England with a- 
© monks, and that the popiſh clergy took care to keep their 
ud laity under the moſt deplorable ignorance, but always. 
gag the power and ſanity of his holineſs, Hence it was, 
Anglo-Saxons, during their heptarchy, were governed by 
ud monks; and as they ſaw convenient, 2 their 
Kher to ſhut themſelves up in cloiſters, or to undertake pilgri- 
C Rome, where they finiſhed their days; no leſs than thirty 
tn kings, during the heptarchy, reſigned their crowns in 
er, and among them was Ina, king of the Weſt Saxons, 
Platter relpects he was a wiſe and brave prince. The bounty 
Ado. Saron kings to the ſee of Rome, was therefore un- 
d Ethel xald king of Mercia, whom I have already men- 


tioned, 


3 1 ut, 
\ 4 — : 2 "Is * " 
e . - K 
„ — — — — oy ̃ —ÄTͤ— =o oo _ — —— — — 
4 — I _ —— 


—— > 


% 


tioned, impoſed an annual tax of a penny upon eve; 
was afterwards known by the name 2 * work 
The Anglo-Saxon kings, during the heptarchy, commog 
one who was to be the head of their political co 
lating their concerns, but without any juriſdiction in the d 
of others. The clergy, we may cafily ſuppoſe, had great i 
on thoſe occaſions ; and the hiſtory of the Saxon beptarch 
more than that of crimes, treaſons, and murders, ns 
inſtigations of prieſts and monks. © Even their criminal 
have already inferred, admitted of a pecuniary compenfat 
murder, and regicide itſell. | | 
Under all thoſe diſadvantages of bigotry and barbarity, f 
lo-Saxons were happy in compariſon of the nations on the 
nent; becauſe they were free from the Saracens; or fueceſſors 
homet, who had erected an empire in the Eaſt, upon the n 
the Roman, and began to extend their ravages over Spain, 
and France. London was then a place of very conſiderable 
and, if we are to believe the Saxon chronicles, quoted by 
Withred, king of Kent, paid at one time to Ina, king of | 
a ſum in filver equal to 90, ooo J. ſterling in the year 694. En 
therefore, we may fuppoſe to have been about this time a 
for the people of the continent. 'The venerable Bede then 
poſed his church-hiſtory of Britain. The Saxon chronicle 
of the. oldeſt and moſt authentic monuments of hiſtory th 
nation can produce. An artichecture, ſuch as it wa 
ſtone and yu working, was introduced into England; ands 
in 709, of a Northumbrian prelate who was ſerved in filrer 
It muſt, however, be owned, that the Saxon coins, which art 
rally of copper, are many of-them illegible, and all of them 
Ale and alehouſes are mentioned in the laws of Ina, about tl 
728 and in this ſtate was the Saxon heptarchy in England, 
about the year 800, the Anglo-Saxons, tired out with the 
of their petty kings, united in calling to the government of 
tarchy, Egbert, who was the eldeſt remaining branch of the 
Cerdic, one of the Saxon chiefs who firſt arrived in Britain. 
Charles the Great, otherwiſe Charlemagne, was then | 
France, and emperor of Germany; and I have, ina form 
of this work, mentioned the commercial treaty between l 
Offa, king of Mercia, to whom he ſent in a preſent, a Bu 
ſword, a belt, and two ſilken veſts. Egbert had been obi 
Rate jealouſies, to fly to the court of Charles for protection f 
perſecutions of Eadburga, daughter of Offa, wife to Brithri 
of the Weſt-Saxons. Egbert acquired at the court of Chan 
arts both of war and government, and ſoon united the 9am 
tarchy in his own perſon, but without ſubduin Wales. H 
ged the name of his kingdom into that of Evgle-lond, or Eu 
but there is reaſon to believe that ſome part of England cn 
ſtill to be govern'd by independent princes of the blood af 
tho? they paid, perhaps, a ſmall tribute to Egbert. Hu fe 
excited the envy of the Northern nations, who, under thed 
Danes, then infeſted the ſeas, and were no rangers to the 
England; for about the year 832, they made deſcents u 


z 


4 
E W O I. 4 N D 317 
e where they defeated Egbert in perſon, and carvie 
nue of booty to their ſhips About two — 2 
Cornwall, and, though they: were gained rut 
ef were driven out o England d Egbert, . — 
Mar Wincheſter his chief reſi 4.x" Rn 
iu - ccoeded by his 2 
u . bs y WHO i | 
Ladet fon AthelRan. Dy this time England 244 5p 
if blood and ravages, through the — 
d Ethelwolf ier ſome ti — r 
80 of devotion to Rome — 2 
„to which place fie carried with 
ſoungelt (02, afterwards the famous Alfred | 
in this occaſion (copies of ic — — 
pi which are {till remaining) are ſo 
1 = — 8 brain to have been touched by his 
. pon e 4 ter his return from Rome, he divided 
— _— 3 — ſons, (Athelſtan being then dead,) 
Allred. Ethelbert, wh — — 
ia 866, to his brother Erhetr e ww ey 
Ae we ny red; in whoſe time, notwith« 
j — = u Alfred, the Danes beeame maſs 
1 — — - - fineſt counties in England. Ethelred 
* 8 Alfred mounted the throne in 871. He 
— pra both in peace and war, mentioned 
ke yr EY with the Danes, with various 
| ren Ry, 4 e found reſources that rendered him 
nme date of A — — — 
3 — eing forced to hve in the diſguiſe. 
bis brave friends, wh ag Sar CE 
— — — he collected together, and by 
3 == —— nes _ ſignal overthrows, till at 
who had been ſettled Tails to — 2 yr am = 
even — 
n — hugs — — his protection ſo that he is 
a England, powerſul monarch that had ever 
| the ot 2 * , N 4 | , 
uk e — we —— reign, was that of raifing a 
— — . ch he ſecured her coaſts from 
Re —— — * of London, which had been 
yew bor «. He —_— — the univerſity of Oxſord 
96, ow ed ngland into counties, hundreds, 
gms Se gw thoſe diviſions, and the uſe of 
1 - o deſuetude by the ravages of the Danes. 
OS — | » wis himſelf not only a ſcholar, 
94 * imſelf, that upon his acceſſion to 
harry wy x ar * who could read Engliſh, or 
7 atin. He introduced ſtone and 
1 : in palaces as well as churches, though 
wildings = as or many years after his death were fond 
* * — of commerce and naviga- 
e — ern times, but he had merchants 
wether, — jewels; and William and Malmſbury ſays, 
were * in the church of Sherborne 
in 


oy F N O LI Ron 
in his time. He received from one Octher, about the 
full diſcovery of the coaſts of Norway and Lapland, as f 
ſia : and be tells the king, in bis memorial Printed hy 
That he ſailed along the Norway coaſt, ſo ſar North 
4% ly the whale hunters uſually travel.“ He inviced ms 
learned men into his dominions, and found faithful and u 
in the two Scots . his contemporaries, Gregory and 
againſt the Danes. He is ſaid to have fought u left 
picched battles, with thoſe barbarians. He was inert 
his corrupt judges, whom he uſed to hang up on publie 
as a terror ta evil doers. He died in the year 900, and bi 
ter is ſo completely amiable and "heroic, that he i zul 
with the epithet of the Great. I have been the more 
hiſtory of Alfred's reign, as it is the moſt glorious of 
Engliſh annals, t h it did not extend to foreign.conquel 
Alfred was ſucceeded by his ſon Edward the Elder, und 
though a brave prince, the Danes renewed their batharitie 
vaſions. He died in the year 925, and was ſucceeded by 
ſon Athelſtan. This prince was fuch an encourager of con 
to make a law, that every-merchant who made three ve 
| his own account, to the Mediterranean, ſhould be put up 
ing with a thane, or nobleman of the firſt rank. He e. 
coinage, and we find by his laws that archbiſhops, biſhops, 
abbots, had then the privilege of minting money, His d 
appear, however, to have been confined towards dhe N 
Danes, although bis vaſſals ſtill kept a footing in thoſe cou of ar 
was engaged. in perpetual wars with his neighbours, the prop 
particular, and died in 941. The reigns. of his ſucceſſors, | 
Edred, and, Edway, were weak and inglorious, being eith 8 
ged in wars with the Danes, or diſgraced by the influence n Eu 
dgar, who mounted the. throne about the wear 959. 
naval glory of England, but, like his predeceſſors} he'wat 
of priells, particularly St Dunſtan. His reign, however, 
fic and glorious, though he was obliged to cede to dhe 
territory to the North of the Tine. He was ſucceeded, mW cc 
his eldeſt ſon Edward, who was barbarouſly murdered yr © 
mother, whoſe ſon Ethelred mounted the throne in 979+ 
Fü nation, at that time, by the help of prieſts, was orer 
arbarians, and the Danes by degrees became poſlelſed af 
part of the country, while their countryinen made ſometin 
ful deſcents in the Weſtern parts. In the year 3008 they 
ſuch ſettlements in England, that Ethelred was obliged fe 
to a general maſſacre of them by the-Englilh, but it u 
- that it was ever put into execution. Some attempts of 
however, were undoubtedly made in particular counncy 
ſerved only to enrage the Daniſh king, Swein, whoy in 
Ethelred, his queen, and two ſons, out of England inte 
a province of France, facing the South- Ea, coaſt of E ay 
that time governed by its own princes, {tiled the dubes of 
Swein being killed, was fuccecded by his ſon Canute 
whom I have already mentioned, but Ethelred rerum 
land, forced Cauante to retire to Denmark, from-whence» 


= Ex 


18 


NM Ly &A> Ns D. N 379 


vih a vaſt army, and obliged Edmund Ironſide, Ethel - 

io divide with him the kin Upon Edmund's be- 
ed, Canute fucceeded to the undisided kingdom; and 
+ 1035, his fon Harold Harefoot did nothing memorable, 
, Hardicanute, was ſo en a prince that the 
ended with him — Wi Nuh e ' 
ily of Ethelred was now called to the throne; and Ed- 
tho is commonly called the Confeſſor, mounted it, though 
being, by being deſcended from an elder branch, had the 
Ut. and was alive. Edward the Confeſſor was a ſoft, good - 


prince, a great benefactor to the church, and exe vely | 


he Normans, with whom he had reſided. + He was govern» 
W miniſter, ear! Godwin, and his fons, the eldeſt of whom 
old. He durſt not reſent, though be felt, their ignominious 
at; and perceiving his kinſman Edgar Etheling'to be of a 
tion, neither he nor the Engliſh-paid much regard to E- 
yhereditary right; ſo that the Confeſſor, as is ſaid,” deviſed 
xeon of his crown upon his death to William duke of Nor- 

Be that as it will, it is certain, that upon the death of the 


V in the year 1066, Harold, ſon to Godwin earl of Kent, 


the throne of England, N. aten? | 
m duke of Normandy, though a baſtard, was then in the 
ri poſſeſſion of that great dutchy, and refdIved'to aſſert his 
the crown of England. For that purpoſe he invited the 
ming princes, as well as his own vaſſals, to join him, and 
of anticipation, he parcelled' out the territory of England to 
proportion to the number of the men he brought into the 
uking it thereby their intereſt to aſſiſt lim effeftually, By 
an he collected 40, ooo of the braveſt and moſt regular 
u Europe, and while Harold was embarraſſed with freſh inva- 
the Danes, William landed in England without oppoſi- 
Warold returning from the North, encountered William at 
p, in Suſſex, with a ſuperior army, but Harold being killed. 
of England devolved upon William, in the year 1066 ; 
ended the Saxon monarchy in England, which had con- 
more than 600 years. | | 
ot find any great improvements, either in arts or arms, 
be Saxons had made in England ſince the firſt invaſion of 
& Thoſe barbarians ſeem to have carried off with them 
Wihe bullion and ready money of the Anglo-Saxons, for I 
tat Alfred the Great left no more to his two daughters 
r fortons than 100 l. each. The return of the Danes to 
ad the vidtories which had been gained over them, had 
dy brought back great part of the money and bullion they 
ſed off; for we are told that Harold, in his laſt victory over 
% regained as much treaſure as twelve luſty men could car- 
Ne have, indeed, very particular accounts of the value of 
and manufactures in thoſe days; a palfrey coſt 10's. an 
ud (according to biſhop Fleetwood in his Chronicon Preti- 
; ad a hide of land, containing 120 acres, 100 s. but there 
uty in forming the proportion of value which thoſe 


Me to the preſent ſtandard of money, though many inge - 


"I-03 pious 


„ 
TW ˙— r U. 

2 — * Wiki —_— — — 

pony — — 


gte E N G L N N 
nious tre atiſes have been written on that head; A ſteep 
- rated at 1 6. an ox was computed at G s. cow 1 am 
The board wages of a child; the Grit year, ws fd, The 
of Shireburne were obliged at the choice to pay titheg 64 
hens. Siik and cotton were quite unknown, Linen wa 
uſed. In the Saxon times, land was divided among al 
chiſdren ofthe deceaſed. Entails weve fometitiesprafiifed uch 
Wich regard to the manners of the Anglo- Hanes ve 
little, but that they were in general a rude, ancultivared of... 
norant of letters, unſkilful in the mechanical arts untame 
miſſion under law and goverument, addicted ta imemperm 
and diforder. Even fo low as che reign of Canute; they 
children and kindred into foreign, parts. Their bel gi * 
their military courage, which yet was not ſuppottedby A 
conduct. Even the Norman Riſtorians, notwithſtandi | 
Hate of the arts in their own country,” ſpeak of them as b tr 
when they mention the invaſion made upon them by the 
Normandy. Conqueſt put the people in 4 fituation-of 
flowly from abroad the rudimenits of ſcience and-cultivati 
cbtrecting their rough and liceritious manners Their 1 
ted ſtate might be owing to the clergy, who'always di 
nufattares. die ER i 21 
We are, however, to diſtinguiſh-betiyeen' the ſecular de 
the regulars or monks. Many of the former, among the 
$axons, were men of exemplary live, and excellent” may 
The latter depended upon the ſee of Rome, and divedted 
fciences of the king and the great men, and were 
and often a bloody ſet. A great deal of the Saxon! 
likewiſe owing to their continnal intercourſe with the conti 
the Daniſh invaſions, which left little wom for civi or l 
provements. Amidſt all thoſe defects, public and perſonatine an 
well underſtood and guarded by the Saxon inſtitutions g and | 
to them, at this day, the moſt valuable privileges of Enghth ibo 
The loſs which both ſides faffered at the battle of "Hat 


certain. Anglo-Saxon authors ſay, that Harold was ſo 1888s or 
to fight, that he attacked William with halt of his army; oc: 
advantage of numbers was on the ſide of the Normany ant anc 


the death of Harold ſeems to hate decided the dayy and Mer 
with very little further difficulty; took poſſefſion of the the mes; 
partly new modelled the whole "conſtitution of Eagan v 
manner I have already deſctibed, by converting all the | 
xnight's fees , which are ſaid to have amonnted to GN ec 
were held of the Norman, and other great perſons w 
Him in his-conqueſt, and who were bound to attend um! 
knights and their ſollowers in his wars. © He, gave, forum! 
one of his barons, the whole county of "Cheſter, which 

into a palatinate, and rendered by his grant almoſt incrp 
the crown: and here, according to ſome hiſtorians; ve 
riſe of the feudal law in England. William found it no et 


+ Four hides of land made one knight's-fee 2. a barony was toe 
than that of a knight's-fee : and when DoomſTay-book was lramed, 
great baraas mounted to 790, Sh 


N G i @ WW Ih 3% 
the. crown. Edgar Etheling, and bis Hilber. the 
a heirs, were affectionately received in Scotland, 
ibe Saxon lords took arms and formed conſpiracien in 
\ Wiliam-got the better of all-difficulues, eſpecially after 
wade 2 peace with Malcolm king of Scotland, who married 
nder; but not without exerciſing horrible eruelties upon 
6200s, whom be obliged to put aut their candles and 
© erening at eight o' clock, upon the ringing of à bell, cal» 
1. He introduced Norinan laws and Nr He 
tone ſq are tower at London, commonly! called: the white 


and bridled the country with forts, and diſartned the old 
uns; in thort, he attempted every thing poſſible to obliterate 


nee of the Anglo-Saxon conſtitution. $3 '4 $19 gt 

aſd a general ſurvey of all the lands. aſ England to be made, 
#10 be compleated, (for it was begun in Edward the Con- 
time) and an account to be taken of the villains, ſlaves, and 


t upon cach eſtate; all which, were recorded in a book cal · 


weſday-hook, which is now kept in the Exchequer: , But the 
if this fortunate and victorious king was diſturbed in his old 
the rebellion of his eldeſt ſo Robert, who had been appomets 
mor of Normandy, but now affamed. the government as ſo - 
yol that province, in which he was favoured by the king of 
And here we have the riſe of the wars between England 
e which have continued longer, drawn more noble blood, 
n attended with more. memorable atchievernents, than any 
wtional quarrel we read of in ancient or modern hiſtory. 
being 2 war inevitable, entered upon it with his uſual vi- 
wd, with incredible celerity, tranſporting a brave Englith 
maded France, where he was every where victor ions, but 
re he had finiſhed the war, in the year 2087, the 61ſt of 
and 21ſt of his reign in England, and was buried in his 
vat Caen in Normandy. en 
tore are the moſt material tranſactions of William's reign 3 
Wy be further obſerved, that by the Norman comqueſt, Eng · 
c only loſt, the true line of her ancient Saxon kings, bat alto 
kcipal nobility, who either fell in battle in defence of their 
ad hberties, or fled to foreign countries, particulatly Scot - 
Nere being kindly received by king Malcolm, they eſtabliſhed 
hes; and what is very rematkable, introduced the Saxon of 
— = been the prevailing language in the Lowlands of 
A this day. 41 a Le 
keceſſion to the crown of England was diſputed between the 
rs ſons Robert and William, (commonly called Rufus) 
carried in favour of the latter. He was à brave and in- 
Face, but no friend to the clergy, who have, therefore, 
durable to his memory. He was likewiſe hated by the 
0 vo loved his elder brother, and conſequently was en- 
* perpetual wars with his brothers, and rebellious people. 
Ws time the cruſades to the Holy Land began, and Robert, 
wong the firſt to engage, accommodated matters with 
"2 ſum of money, which he levied. from the clergy, | Wil- 


Wed with great generoſity towards Edgar Etheling and the 
| ; court 


a» © Mw 6... © ns 


be had no other means'of raiſing bat from a luxurious, 


ditch. In the year 1100 happened that inundation of the & 
_ from the Holy Land. Henry may be ſaid to have purchaſed the 
their influence in the ſtate, and they formed as it were af 


the mean while Henry quieted his conſcience by founding an 


tnem. Matilda, however, found' a generous protector in 


| abſolved Stephen and all his friends from their guilt of brea 


died chiefly on foreign mercenaries, having been abande 


, 
- 


\ 


court of Scotland, notwithſtanding alt the privibeatidns 
ceived from that quarter. He was accidentally ſhot the, 
heart, by one Tyrrel, anno 1100, as he was hunting in Nen 
from whence his father had baniſbed the huſbandmg aud 

ſeſſor. He is chiefly accuſed of rapaciouſneſs and on 
the circumſtances of his reign had great demands for money, 


he 


clergy, who had engrofſed all the riches of the kingdom, . 
' This; prince built Weſtminſer-hall-as — d 
ſeveral works to the Tower, which he furrounded with x 


overflowed great part of earl Godwin's eſtate in Kent, and 
thoſe ſhallows in the downs, now called the Goodwin-fands 
. He was ſucceeded by his brother, Henry I. fornamed Be 
on account of his learning, though his brother Robert was ttt 


firſt by his brother's treaſures, which he ſeized at Winchetef 
fecondly, by a charter, in which he reſtored his ſubje&ts to the 
and privileges they had employed under the Angla-Sazon 
thirdly, by his marriage with Matilda, daughter of Malco 
king of Scotland, and niece to Edgar Atheling, of the 
Saxon line. His reign in a great meaſure: reſtored"the c 


body dependent upon the pope, which afterwards created pre 
vulſions in England, Henry, partly by forte, and partiy by 
gem, made himſelf matter of his brother Robert's perſon, 
chy'of Normandy ; and, with a moſt ungenerous meannels, 
ed him a priſoner for 28 years, till the time of his death; 


He was afterwards engaged in a bloody but ſuce 
France; and before his death he ſettled the ſucteſſon uy 
daughter, the empreſs Matilda, widow-t6 Henry IV. em 
Germany, and her ſon Henry, by her ſecond huſband Geo 
tagenet, earl of Anjou. Henry died of a ſurfeit, in the f 
of his age, in 1135. ä e 6244 Rs 
Notwithſtanding the late ſettlement of ſucceſſion, the en 
England was claimed, and ſeized by Stephen, earl of Bloig,: 
of Adela, fourth daughter to William the conqueror. 
her ſon were then abroad; and Stephen: was aflified in bis 
tion by his brother the biſhop of Wincheſter, and the owe 
prelates, that he might hold his crown dependent as t 


David, king of Scotland, and a worthy ſubject in her natut 
ther, Robert, earl of Glouceſter, who headed her party de 
ſon up. A long and bloody war enſued; the clerg) 


act of ſucceſſion ; but at length the barons, who dreaded 
of the clergy, inclined towards Matilda; and Stephen, ur 
clergy, was defeated and taken priſoner in 11415 and be 
before Matilda, ſhe impotently upbraided him, and erde 


A 


= 


E MW A D A ND a. 


| — with the nobility, who were faRtious and 
were an overmatch for the crown. Being now maſ- 


©-g0 
l their rights 
þl ſubjection of the inferior ranks. Stephen was. ill enough 
{to attempt to force them into a compliance with his will, by 
ng lis ſon Euſtace heir-apparent to the kingdom ; and era: 
Ithe clergy ſo much, that they invited over young Henry of 
who had been acknowledged, duke of Normandy, and was 
the expreſs : and he accordingly landed in England with an 
of foreigners. + Hs i eli, 48: e t 
s meaſure divided the clergy from the barons, who were appre» 
ofa ſecond conqueſt ; and the earl of Arundle, withthe heads 
hy ariſtocracy, propoſed an accommodation, to which both 
x agreed. Stephen, who about that time loſt his ſon Euſtace, 
retain the name and office of king; but Henry, who was in 
led with the chief executive power, was acknowledged his 
i, Though this accommodation was only precarious and im- 
þ yet it was received by the Engliſh,, Who had bled at every 
ung the late civil wars, with raptures of joy; and Stephen 
ery opportunely, Henry mounted the throne without a rival 
Il. ſurnamed Plantagenet, was by far the greateſt princg 
lime, It is true, he owed his crown to the arms and valour 
grand uncle, David, king of Scotland, and the virtues and 
dal the earl of Glouceſter 3 but Henry, as he grew up, diſ- 
8 amazing abilities for government, having performed, in the 
ear of his age, actions that would have dignified the molt. 
aced warriors. At his acceſſion to the throne, he found the 
v0t the Engliſh boroughs greatly bettered by the privi - 
Futed them in the ſtruggles between their late kings and the 
Henry perceived the good policy of this, and brought the 
. to ſuch a height, that if a bondman or ſervant remained 
Wugh a year and a day, he was by ſuch refidence made free. 
Ke Willingford, Wincheſter, and Oxford, into tree boroughs, 
ErVices the inhabitants had done to his mother and bialelf ; 
dug them from every burden, excepting the fixed fee-farm 
Wei town ; and this throughout all England, excepting Lon- 
1 gave a vaſt acceſſion of power to the crown, becauſe the 
= could ſupport the boroughs againſt their feudal tyrants, 
ary to reduce his overgrown nobility, | 
King very ſcrupulous in adhering to his former, engage : 
; f ments, 


- 2 
— 2 — 
8 8 — ; * = 
- —_— I ——_— l . *# = l = yo 
oo — — 
Son — —_—— wh. 
— — 2 — m 
"8 a. — — — — —7—7r— 
- 


n E 
nn x ge 
2 4 Rt 1, 


—— — 
” = n= 2 — 
— — 
2 - l = 

_ * 
— Mu 


- > 


_ — r by 
mY Fe ; 
* 6 j 
A = * 
> —— I DB 4c Cary +. 
9 . wü] ̃ ⁵ͥ I p ²˙ le 
2 * * 


— —_ 
- 


= * = 
— — 2 — 
= — 
— —ä — — ͤ — 6ꝙ6»'42ꝛn «c — — = = _ 
8 4 8 
1 
— = 


as. 


V, 


" 
- ” 
od = 
= - 


| The blebdy cruthies and diſorders, 'Secafioned by thole 


 ' they could be ratified by the pope; who, ashe forehom;/ rejet 


. quainting Henry of their intentions, they went over to! 
blind obedience of his knights; and the pablic "reſentment 


martyr. 


* 6 3 a * : | - — 
| , = , Ly 2 - 7 
: | | * 
894 - 


E M n # Wh. 
ments, he reſumed the exceſſive grants of crown bv 
on'pteteiice of his being an uſurper! He demolifhed" the 

caftles that had been built; but When de came to touch the 
ne fobnd their uſurpations not to be ſhaken,” He perecing 
root Gf All their enormous diſorders lay in Nome, whe 
had exempted ehurchmen not only from lay courts, bars 


all over the kingdom, would (be incredible; Wee 
by the 'moſt une xceptionabie evidences, '* Vaſordatite, 1 
the bead ef the Eugliſi church, and chanedlor of the k 
wis'the'celebrated Thomas Becket. This man, powerful 
offices,” and Rin more To by his popularity,” uriling from « 
ſanQity, was violent, intrepid, and a determined ceny to 
power of every kind, but Witkal, eoel and-politic.” The ti 

His nobility at Clarendon, ' the name of which place is 
mous ſor the conſtitutions there enacted 7 which, in fad, 8 
the authority of the Romiſh fee over the Engliſh clergy, 
finding it in vain to reſiſt the Rream, ſigned thoſe” conſtituti 


Henry, though a prince of the moſt determiified"ſpirit of in 
time, was then embroiled with all his neighbours ; and tl 
Rome was at the ſame time in its meridian grandeur, x 

been arraigned and convicted of robbibg the public, 
was chancellor, fled to France, where the pope aud the Fre 
eſpouſed his quarrel. The effect was, that all cke Englit 
who were on the king's fide were excommunfeated, and the 
abſolved from their Aegean This diſconeerted Henry! 
that he ſubmitted to treat, and even to be inſulted by his re 


late, who returned triumphantly through the Rreets of L 
1190, His return ſwelled his pride, and increaſed bis Pp <5 
till both became infupportable to Henry, who was then ig 7 

who 


dy. "Finding that he was in fact only the firſt ſubje of his 
minions, he was heard to ſay, in the anguiſh of his hens, 4 
none who will revenge his monarch's eauſe upon this audacious 
Theſe words reached the gars of four _ Hugh Nor 
liam Tracy, Hugh Brito, and Richard Fezwiſe 3 and wit 


where they beat out Beeket's brains beſote the altar of 
church at Canterbury. Henry was in no condition to f 


High, on the ſuppoſition that he was privy to the murder 
ſubmitted to be ſcourged by monks at the tomb of the g 


Henry, in conſequence of his well known maxim, ende 
cancel all the grants which had been made Þy Stephen to 
family of Scotland, and actually reſumed their moſt valu ag 
ſions in the North of England, This occaſioned a war de 
two kingdoms, in which William king of Scotland was 
ſoner, and forced to pay for his ranſom 100,000 . As 
and coins of Scotland were at that time of the fame int 
with thoſe of England, and as one half of the ranſom “ 
ready money, and the other at a time appointed, it has l. 


EN SS SM © 8 
00 Nicholſon, and other very accurate authors, that, con- 
ye rat difficulties which England, in the next reign, had 
lee ranſom of king Richard, Scotland mult have then poſſeſ- 

ready money than land, a fat, which though un- 
do cafily accounted for upon any hiſtorical ſyſtem hi- 


— diſtinguiſhed his reign by the conqueſt of Ireland, 
[hall have occalion to mention when I treat of that iſland z 


} Guienne and Poictou, he became almoſt as powerful as 
ach king himſelf in his own dominions, and the greateſt 
« Chritendom. Henry, however, in his old age was far 
ang fortunate. He had a turn for pleaſure, and embarraſſed 
n intrigues with women, particularly the fair Roſamond, 
meereſented by his queen Eleanor, by her ſeducing her ſons, 


l. time) Richard, and John, into repeated rebellions, which 
woke the old man's ſpirit, and he died obſcurely at Chinou, 
z, in the year 1189, and 58th of his age. The ſum he left 
noney, at his death, has, perhaps, been exaggerated, but 


wp the reign of Henry, corporation charters were eſtabliſhed 
England, by which, as I have already hinted, the power of 
1 was greatly reduced. Thoſe corporations encouraged 
r manulactures, eſpecially thoſe of filk, ſeem till to have 
wined to Spain and Italy; for the filk coronation robes, 
of by young Henry and his queen, coſt 871. 10s. 4d. in 
F LOST of London's account, printed by Mr Madox; a vaſt ſum 
s. Henry introduced the uſe of glaſs in windows into 
and ſtone arches in building. Malmſbury, and other hiſ- 
mo lived under him, are remarkable for their Latin ſtile, 
Wome places is both pure and elegant. 
ou” © far aboliſhed the barbarous and abſurd practice of for- 
bps, which had been wrecked on the coaſt, that if one man 
ere alive in the ſhip, the veſſel and goods were reſtored 
Mers, This prince was alſo the firſt who levied a tax on 
Ae or perſonal eſtates of his ſubjects, nobles as well as peo- 


of r zeal for the holy wars made them ſubmit to this inno- 
zen © 2 precedent being once obtained, this taxation became, 
der g reigns, the uſual method of ſupplying the neceſlities of 
he Þ vince we are here collecting ſome detached inſtances, 


ide genius of theſe ages, it may not be improper to men- 
ſurel between Roger, archbiſhop of York, and Richard, 
pof Canterbury, We may judge of the violence of mili- 
Hua = ymen, when ecclefialtics could proceed to ſuch ex- 
b The Pope's legate having ſummoned an aſſembly of the 
Landon ; and as both the archbiſhops pretended to fit on 
ad, this queſtion of precedency begot a controverſy be- 
Ide monks and retainers of archbiſhop Richard fell 
4 i the preſence of the cardinal and of the ſynod, threw 
F2C, trampled him under foot, and ſo bruiſed him 
3 C . 1 with. 


nrrying Eleanor, the divorced queen of France, but the 


[hom his father had unadviſably cauſed to be crowned in 


| moderate accounts make it amount to 200,000 l. of our 


2 ˙ — — ooo —LK— —— RS OOO — — 


' 
, 
G 
l 
i 
1 
1 
4 : [ 
: j 
: 
1 


386 E G L & Now 
with blows, that he was taken up half dead, aud 
_ difficulty ſaved from their violence. WP Wo 
Richard I. ſurnamed Cœur de Lion, was the third 
ſarviving ſon of Henry II. The clergy had found we 
him over, and for their own ends they perſuaded him tom 
magnificent ruinous cruſade to the Loly Hud, where bete 
lon, and performed actions of valour that give countenance 
the fables of antiquity. After ſeveral glorious, but. fra 
paigns, he made a truce of three years with'Saladin, emp 
Saracens; and in his return to England he was treachert 
prized by the duke of Auſtria, who, in 1194, ſent him pri 
the emperor Henry VI. His ranſom was fixed'by the ford 
ror at 150, ooo marks, about 300,000 J. of our preſent mone 
cording to contemporary authors, the raiſing of this ranſond 
to be a matter of ſo much difficulty, that all the church f 
melted down, and a tax was laid on all perſons, both ecc 
and ſecular, of one fourth part of their income- for one ve 
twenty ſhillings on every knight's- fee; alſo one year's wort 
ed of the Ciſtercians, beſides money raiſed upon the clerg 
king's French dominions ; and 2000, merks, which were | 
by William, king of Scotland, in gratitude for Richard's | 
behaviour to him before his departure. 'Though all thoſe 
well authenticated, yet it is not eaſy. to reconcile them wit 
other money tranſactions of this reign, but by ſuppoſing that 
carried off with him, and expended- abroad, all the viſthle 
the kingdom ; and that the people had reſerved vaſt hoard 
they afterwards produced, when commerce took a briſkert 
Upon Richard's return from his captivity, he held ap 
at Nottingham; whither William king of Scotland came 
manded the counties of Northumberland, Cumberland, N 
land, and Lancaſter,. as his predeceſſors had enjoyed t 
Kichard put him off for the preſent with fair 'words, yet! 
of his. council he granted William, by charter, the loll 
nours and benefits for him and his ſucceſſors, viz, That 
a king of Scotland was to be ſummoned to the court of Eg 
homage for the lands he held in England, he ſhould be, at 
Tweed, received by the biſhop of Durham, and the ſberif 
thumberland, and they ſhould conduct him to the river Te 
the archbiſhop and ſheriff. of York {hould' receive him; 
like ſort the biſhop, and ſheriffs of the other ſhires, till he 
court. On his journey he had 10 ſhillings (15 of 00 
per day, allowed him for charges: At court thirty (h 
day; twelve waſtels, and twelve fitnnels of the king's (t 
fine bread in uſe then) four quarts of the king's belt wine; 
of ordinary wine; two pound weight. of pepper 3 and te 
weight of cinnamon ; four wax lights ; forty great long | 
the ; coir beſt candles; and twenty-fobr of the ordinary 
on his return he was to be conducted as before, with ta 
lowances,” 50 
Whilſt the Scottiſh kings enjoyed their lands in Engk 
found it their intereſt, once generally in every king b fe. 


« 1. 
10 * N L. A N D. 387 
b bonagez but when they were deprived of their ſaid 


ihe paid no more homage. 


j, upon his return, found his dominions in great diſorder, 


b he practices of his brother John, whom he however par- 
and by the invaſions of the French, whom he repelled, but 


u in belieging the caſtle of Chalons, in the year 1199, the 
ks age, and 10th of his reign. Some woollen broad-cloths 
o have been made in England at this time. And to thoſe 
ald mark the progreſs of the Engliſh conſtitution, it may be 
p obſerve, that in this reign, we. meet with the firſt inſtance 
wople's ſtruggling for privileges, as a diſtin& body from the 
nd clergy. This was an inſurrection of the Londoners, headed 
Wilian Fitzoſborn te oppoſe an injudicious and oppreſſive 


Þ burden of which was to fall entirely on the poor. Fitzol- 
repreſented as a man brave and enterprizing, but being hard 


be took refuge in a church, from whence he was dragged to 
ors, and hung in chains, with nine of his accomplices. 
xrſons may be conſidered as the firſt victims to that untame - 


writ, which ever ſince has actuated the commons of England 
wort of their privileges, and prompted them to-rhe rights of 


rien of his brother John, who ſucceeded him, is infamous 
Lagliſh hiſtory. He is ſaid to have put to death Arthur, the 


bn of his brother Geoffrey, who had the hereditary right to 
un. The young prince's mother, Conſtance, complained to 


the king of France, who, upon John's non-appearance at 


if perſonal valour, but became at [aſt ſo apprehenſive of a 


kiovaſion, that he rendered himſelf a tributary to the pope, 


bs crown and regalia at the foot of the legate Pandulph, 

them for five days. The great barons reſented his mean - 
aking arms, but he B 2 6 ſhameſul ſubmiſſions to the 
ud alter experiencing various fortunes of war, John was at 
git ſo low, that the barons obliged him, in 1216, to fign 
Wt 0:ed, ſo well known by the name of Magna Charta. Tho? 
ſer is deemed the foundation of Engliſh liberty, yet it is in 
aber than a renewal of thoſe immunities which the barons 
kr followers had poſſeſſed under the Saxon princes, and which 
uned by the charter of Henry I. As the principles of liber- 
wer, came to be more enlarged, and property to be better 
dis charter, by various ſubſequent acts and explanations, 
be applicable to every Englith ſubje&, as well as to the ba- 
Kiphts, and burgeſſes. John had ſcarce ſigned it, when he 
4 and called upon the pope for protection, when the barons 
their allegiance from John, and transferred it to Lewis, 
_ of Philip Auguſtus, king of France. This gave um- 
"Ute pope, and the barons being apprehenſive of their coun- 
dug a province to France, they returned to John's alle- 
4 ie was unable to protect them, till the pope refuſed to 
*title of Lewis. John died in 1216, in the 49th year of 
ud as he had a glimpſe of reſuming his authority. With - 
zC32 out 


n, as a vaſſal, deprived him of Normandy. John notwith+ 
zin his wars with the French, Scotch, and Iriſh, gave many 


388 E W G L 1 Wl 
out diſputing what hiſtorians have ſaid of his arbitrary , 
and cruel diſpoſition, it is evident, from the ſame relation.” 
had great provocations from the clergy and the barons, 5 
turns attempted to annihilate the regal prerogative, ht | 
able, at the ſame time, that under John the commons of? 
laid the foundation of all the wealth and privileges they xox 
and the commerce of England received a molt ſurprifng i 
He may be called the father of the privileges of free borough 
ke eſtabliſhed, and endowed all over his kingdom. The 
London owes many of her privileges to him, the office « 
before his reign, was for life; but he gave them a charter 
a mayor out of their own body, aka and to elect the 
and common-council annually, as at preſent ;. and it was ut 
that the ſtone bridge, as it ſtood ſome years ago, was eredls 
the Thames at London. y 

1 — was in a deplorable ſituation when her crown { 
upon Henry III. the late king's ſon, who was but nine ye 
The earl of Pembroke was choſen his guardian; and the j 
ing part with the young prince, the French were defeated, 
out of the kingdom, and their king obliged to renounce 
npon the crown of England. The regent earl of Pembiy 
had thus retrieved the independency of his country, died Far 
and the regency devolved upon the biſhop of Wincheltet 
French king all this time kept poſſeſſion of Normandy ; but 
the pope was now'become king of England; and ſent no fe 
300 of his rapacious clergy at one time to take poſſeſſon 
benefices, and to load the people with taxes. This evil wa 
ſed, by Henry marrying the danghter of the. king of Pro 
needy prince, whoſe poor relations engroſſed the belt el 
places in the kingdom. The king was of a ſoft, pliable dil 
and had been perſuaded to violate the Great Charter. A 
tion of the barons was formed againſt him and his governs | 
a civil war breaking out, Henry ſeemed to be abandoned Ws t 
his Gaſcons, and foreign mercenaries. His profuſion bro! c: 
into inexpreſſible difficulties, and the famous Stephen Mo con! 
ing choſen general of the aſſociation, the king and his two Wy: 
defeated, and taken priſoners, at the battle of Lewes. A on" 
happening between Montfort and the earl of Glouceſter, a1 
of great authority, prince Edward, Henry's eldeſt fon 
His liberty, and aſſembling as many as he could of his fatl 
jets, who were jealous of Montfort, and weary of the 
the barons, he gave battle to the rebels, whom he defeattd 
_ ſham, and killed Montfort. The repreſentatives of the en 
England, both knights and burgeſſes, formed now part 0 
liſh legiſlature, in a ſeparate houſe, and this gave the br 
feudal tenures in England, but hiſtorians are not agre® 
manner the commons, before this time, formed any part o 
liſh parliaments, or great councils. Prince Edward be uy 
wards engaged in a cruſade, Henry, during bis abſench 4y 
1272, the 64th year of his age, and 56th of his regis. 
uncomfortable and inglorious. During his reign, the pri 
toms aroſe from the importation of French and 


, 


£ x6 N A u 309 
| g z5 yet ſtrangers to thoſe of Spain, Portugal and Italy. 
uud jn that age mounted to an enormous height, as might 
+d from the barbariſm of the times, and mens ignorance of 
PF which was (till very low, though it ſeems rather to have 
+ fnce the conqueſt, There are inſtances of 501, per cent. 
ke moneys which tempted the Jews to remain in England, 
landing the grievous oppreſſions they laboured under, from 

ol the age, and Henry's extortions. In 1255, Henry 
+ demand of 8000 marks from the Jews, and threatened 
„ them, if they refuſed compliance. They now loſt all pa- 
ind deſired leave to retire with their effects out of the king- 
Bit the king replied, «© How can I remedy the oppreſſion 
slain of ? l am myſelf a beggar; I am deſpoiled? I am 
ol of all my revenues; I owe above 200,000 marks; and if I 
id 300,000, I ſhould not exceed the truth ; I am obliged to 
i ſon, prince Edward, 15,000 marks a year; I have not a 
io; and I muſt have money from any hand, from any quar- 
1 by any means.” King John, his father, once demanded 
wo marks from a Jew of . Briſtol ;, aud on his refuſal, ordered 
his teeth to be drawn every day tiil he ſhould conſent. The 
if ſeven teeth, and then paid the ſum required of him. 
vnd returning to England, on the news of his father's death, 
all who held of his crown in capite, to his coronation dinner, 
þ confilted (that the reader may have ſome idea of the luxury 
times) of 278 bacon hogs, 450 hogs, 440 oxen, 430 ſheep, 
þ hens and capons, and 13 fat goats; (ſee Rymer's 21g 

rund was a brave and a politic prince, and being perſectly 

med with the laws, intereſts, and conſtitution of his kingdom, 
nations and reformations of his laws, have juſtly given him 
el the Englith Juſtinian. He paſſed the famous mortmain 
tereby all perſons © were reſtrained from giving, by will or 
je, their eſtates to thoſe /o called, religious purpoſes, and the 
bes that never die, without a licence from the crown.” He 
d certain privileges to the cinque-ports, which, though now 
non'iderable, were then obliged to attend the king when he 
beyond ſea, with fifty-ſeven ſhips, each having twenty armed 
5 on board, and to maintain them at their own coſts for the 
i fifteen days. He reduced the Welſh to pay him tribute, 
mered its principality to his crown, and was the firſt who 
le title of Prince of Wales to his eldeſt ſon. Though he en- 
ſed foreizners to trade with England, yet the. aggragate 
a every particular nation reſiding here, became anſwerable for 
Kmeanors of every individual perſon of their number. He 
ted the forms of parliament, and their manner of giving aids 
«te nation's defence, as they now ſtand, with very little va- 
L Perceiving that the indolence of his ſubjects rendered them 
o the Jews, who were the great uſurers and money dealers 
unes, he expelled them out of England, and ſeized all their 
* lates. I have in the article of Scotland mentioned the 
Wie manner in which he aboliſhed the independency of that 
ini but, on the other hand, it muſt be acknowledged that 
ur balance of power in Europe, and employed the vaſt ſums 


be 


„„ 
he raiſed from his ſubjecks, ſor the aggrandizement of ki.» 


niſhed by his father Edward, he mounted the throne, with 
vantages, both political and perſonal, all which he ſoon ſorſe 


| Honour and courage. His queen, a furious ambitious v0 


ter defeating them, reſtored him to the exercile of all lis p 


* - 


people. He had frequent wars abroad, 'eſpecially with x 
which he was not very ſucceſsful; and would willin ly ha 

d the power of the barons, and great nobility, ta they 
ſtrong. 
His vaſt connections with. the continent were produ&ive 
benefits to his ſubjects, particularly by the introduttion of 
glaffes and ſpectacles, though they are ſaid to have been ind. 
the late reign, by the famous friar Bacon, whom 1 have 
mentioned. Windmills were ere&ed in England, about «| 
time, and the regulation of gold and filver workmauſkip v 
tained by an aſſay, and mark of the gold-ſmiths company, 
all, Edward's continental wars were unfortunate both to kin 
the Engliſh, by draining them of their wealth, and it i 
that he too much negledted the woollen manufactures of bi 
dom. He was often embrciled with the pope, eſpecially uy 
affairs of Scotland, and he died in 1307, the 6gth year of | 
and 35th of his reign, while he was upon a frelh expeditia 
terminate that people. | 2 

His fon and ſucceffor Edward II. ſhewed early diſpoſti 
encouraging favourites, but Gaveſton, his chief minion, bef 


his own imprudence. He recalled Gaveſton, and loaded hi 
Honours, and married Iſabella, daughter to the French linz 
reſtored to him part of the territories, which Edward I. had 
France. The knights templars were ſuppreſſed in his reg 
the barons obliged him once more to baniſh his favourite, 
confirm the great charter, while king Robert Bruc: recoy 
Scotland, excepting the caſtle of Stirling, near to which, Þ 
burn, Edward in perſon received the greateſt defeat that E 
ever ſuffered, in 1314. Gaveſton being beheaded by the 
Edward fixed upon young Hugh Spencer for his favourite, 
was baniſhed together with his father, an aged nobleman 


ſuaded her huſband to recal the Spencers, while the common 
from their hatred to the barons, joined the king's ſtandard, 


tives. A cruel uſe was made of thoſe ſucceſſes, and man 
patriots, with their eſtates, fell victims to the queen's reven 
at laſt ſhe became enamoured with Roger Mortimer, who 
priſoner, and had been one of the moſt active of the ant 
lords. A breach between her and the Spencers ſoon followt 
going over to France with her lover, ſhe found means to fol 
a party in England, that returning with ſome French tro 
put the eldeſt Spencer to an ignominious death, made ber! 
riſoner, and forced him to abdicate his crown, in favour ® 
dward III. then fifteen years of age. Nothing nov but th 
of Edward II. was wanting to complete her guilt, and he 
barbarouſly murdered in Berkeley-caſtle, by ruffians, ſuppol 
employed by her and her paramour Mortimer, in the year! A 
The fate of Edward II. was in ſome meaſure as ufa np ” 


fn G TL AN . 390 


is chief misfortune lay in not being a match for Robert 
1g of Scotland, the greateſt military and political genius 
by which the Enghſh loſt that kingdom. It cannot, at 
3 de denied, that he was too much engroſſed by favour- 
10 4 bim into ſanguinary meafures. In other reſpects he 
br better friend than his father had been to public liberty. 


voluntarily limited his own prerogative, in a parliament 


London in 1324, and he ſecured the tenaiits of great barons, _ 


king oppreſſed by their lords. None of his predeceſſors equal- 


in his encouragement of commerce. and he protected his 


g ſubjects with great ſpirit againſt the Hanſeatic league, and 
bbouring powers. Upon an average, the difference of liv- 
© 2rd now ſeems to be nearly as 5 or 6 is to 1, always re- 
nne that their money contained thrice as much ſilver as our 
For coin of the ſame denomination does. Thus, for example, 
we then colt 2d. £, that is 7d. 3 of our money, or according 
portion of ö to 1, it would now coſt 3 8. 9 d. 
xd III. mounted the throne in 1327. He was then under 
on of his mother, who cohabited with Mortimer, and they 
wored to keep poſſeſſion of their power, by executing many po- 
neaſures, and putting an end to all national differences with 
xd, Edward, young as he was, was ſoon ſenſible of their de- 
He ſurpriſed them in perſon at the head of a few choſen 
in the caſtle of Nottingham. Mortimer was ignominiouſly 
4 public death, and the queen herſelf was ſhut up in confine- 
It was not long before Edward found means to quarrel with 


| king of Scotland, who had married his ſiſter, and who was 


to France by Edward Baliol, who acted as Edward's tributary 
Scotland, and general. Soon aſter, upon the.death of Charles 
ur, king of France (without iſſue} who had ſncceeded by vir- 
the Salic law, which the French pretended cut off all female 
bon to that crown, Philip of Valois claimed it, as being the 
ar-ma'e by ſucceſhon, but he was oppoſed by Edward, as be- 
ſa of Ifabella, who was ſiſter to the three laſt mentioned 
France, and firſt in the female ſucceſſion. The former was 
, but the caſe being doubtful, Edward purſued his claim, 
naded France with a powerful army. 
Ms occafion, the vaſt difference between the feudal conſtitu- 
I France, which were then in full force, and the government 
Fand, more favourable to public liberty, appeared. The 
bulicers knew no ſubordination. They and their men were 
J ndiſciplined, and diſobedient, though far more numerous 
r enemies in the field. The Engliſh freemen, on the other 
irg now vaſt property to fight for, which they could call 
M, independent of a feudal law, knew its value, and had 
I defend it by providing themfelves with proper armour, 
ating to military exerciſes, and proper ſubordination in the 
The war on the part of Edward, was therefore a continued 
lueceſs and victory. At Creſſy, in 1246, above 100, ooo 
Fere deſeated, chiefly by the valour of the prince of Wales, 
u bn 16 years of age (his father being no more than 34) 


Mt Enzlith did not exceed 20,000, The loſs of the French 


* 
” Ly * * 8 4 
r T ³iwAMA ̃ͤð3 x ⁰ꝛm . . œtr:!! —:Q R— RO . ˙ — =” ==  OS__OO oo} ooo 497. — — - — 
— — — — — — — — ——— —— 
= * — TY — — 9 * F _ * 


— - 


CIS —hl„— —U— — . oO . M . NO roo oe - - * 
W . — — = - - — — 


DD 


392 E N 0 I. £4 
far exceeded the number of the Engliſh army, whoſe lo 
of no more than three knights, and one eſquire, and * 
vate men. The battle of Poitiers was fought in 1856, ba 
prince of Wales, and the French king John, but with ſupe 
vantages of numbers on the part of the French, who wed 
defeated, and their king and his favourite ſon Philip taken g 
It is thought that the number of French killed in this has 
double that of all the Engliſh army; but the modelty and pe 
with which the prince treated his royal priſoners, formed the 
eſt wreath in his garland. | 

Edward's glories were not confined to France, Haring 
queen Phillippa, daughter to the earl of Hainault, regent q 
land, ſhe. had the good fortune to take priſoner David, 
Scotland, who had ventured to invade England, about fix y 

ter the battle of Creſſey was fought. Thus Edward, on his 
had the glory to ſee two crowned heads his captives at 
Both kings were aſterwards ranſomed, but John returned 
land, and died at the palace of the Savoy. Alter the treaty 
tigni, into which Edward III. is ſaid to have been frighte 
dreadtui ſtorm, his fortunes declined. He had reſigned his 
dominions entirely to the prince of Wales, and he ſunk in the e 
his ſubjects at home, on account of his attachment to his mil 
Alice Piers. The prince of Wales, commonly called th 
prince, while he was making a glorious campaign in Spain, 
he reinſtated Peter the cruel on that throne, was ſeized witl 
ſumptive diſorder, which carried him off in the year 1272. 
ther did not long ſurvive him, for he died diſpirited, and 
at Shene, in Surry, in the year 1377, the 65th of his age 
of his reign. : | 

No prince ever underſtood the balance and intereſts of 
better than Edward did. Having ſet his heart on the cond 
France, he gratified the more readily his people in their 
for protection, and ſecurity to their liberties and properties, 
thereby exhauſted his regal dominions; neither was his 
when he mounted the throne, ſo powerful a prince as he 
the beginning of his reign, He has the glory of eltabli 
woollen manufacture among the Engliſh, who till his time, 
ly exported the unwrought commodity. The rate of living 
reign, ſeems to have been much the ſame as in the late re 
few of the Engliſh ſhips, even of war, exceeded 40 or 500 
notwithſtanding the vaſt increaſe of property in Logland, 5 
ſtill continued in the royal, epiſcopal, and baronial manorg 
torians are not agreed, whether Edward made uſe of ar 
his firſt invaſion of France, but it certainly was well known 
his death. The magnificent caſtle of Windſor, was buik 
ward III. and his method of conduQing that work may * 
ſpecimen of the condition of the people in that age. lalte: 
uring workmen by contracts and wages, he aſſeſſed ever} 
in England to ſend him ſo many maſons, tilers, and carpet 
if he bad been levying an army. Soldiers were enliſted on 
ſhort time; they lived idle all the reſt of the year, and e 
all the reſt of their lives; one ſucceſaful campaign, by PI) 


$0 ti 4-8 392 


the ranſom of priſoners, was ſuppoſed to be a ſmall for- 
: which was a great allurement to enter into the ſer- 
n. wages of a maſter carpenter was limited through the 
to three-pence a-day, a common carpenter to two- pence, 

FE that age. John Wickliffe, a ſecular prieſt, educated at 
| | in the latter end of this reign, to ſpread the docs 
"mation by his diſcourſes, ſermons, and writings ; and 
þ many diſciples of all ranks and ſtations. He ſeems to have 
an of parts and learning; and has the honour of being the 
© in Europe, who publicly called in queſtion thoſe doctrines, 
ud univerſally paſſed for certain and undiſputed, during fo 


Tae of Wickliffe, being derived ſrom his ſearch into 
cures, and into eccleſiaſtical antiquity, were nearly the ſame 
boſe propagated by the reſormers in the ſixteenth century. 
gh the age ſeemed ſtrongly diſpoſed to receive them, affairs 
x pet fully ripe for this great revolution, which was reſerved 
xe free and inquiring period, that gave the finiſhing blow 
wh ſuperſtition in this and many other kingdoms of Europe. 
kiples were ditinguiſhed by the name of Wickliffites or Lol- 


rd IT, was no more than eleven years of age, when he 
the throne. The Engliſh arms were then unſucceſsful, both 
ee and Scotland. The doctrines of Wickliffe had taken root 
un of Gaunt, duke of Lancaſter, the king's uncle, and one 
mardians, and gave enlarged notions of liberty to the vil- 
ud lower ranks of people. The truth is, agriculture was 
þ flouriſhing a Rate, that corn, and other victuals, were ſuf- 
þ be tranſported, and the Engliſh had fallen upon a way of 
wfuring for exportation, likewiſe their leather, horns, and os» - 
jive commodities, and with regard to the woollen manufac- 
lier ſeem from records to have been exceeded by none in 
John of Gaunt's foreign connections with the crowns of 
Wand Spain, were of prejudice to England, and ſo many 
e employed in unſucceſsfnl wars, that the commons of Eng- 
le powder receiving a ſpark of fire, all at once flamed out 
belion, under the conduct of Ball, a prieſt, Wat Tyler, and 
the ſcum of the people. Their profeſt principles were thoſe 
lng, but it ſoon appeared, that their real intention was to 

Irdered the king, and ſeized upon the government. 
nd was not then above ſixteen, but he ated with great ſpi- 
dom. He faced the Rorm of the inſurgents, at the head 
Lndoners, while Walworth the mayor, and Philpot an al- 
, had the courage to put Tyler, the arch traitor, to death, 
Alt of his rabble. This, with the ſeaſonable behaviour of 
quelled the inſurrection for that time, but it broke out 
wit bloody effeQs in other parts of England; and though 
preſſed by making many examples of ſeverity and juſtice 
x inſurgents, yet the common people never after that lot 
air own importance, till by degrees they obtained thoſe 
® Uhich they now enjoy. Had Richard been a prince of 
be might, after the ſuppreſſion of thoſe inſurgents, 
3D baye 


404 We £: A” N P. 


have eſtabliſhed the tranquility of his dominions on a fue 
tion, but he delivered himſelf up to worthleſs fayourites, pe 


Ix Sir Michael de la pole, whom he created lord chancelic 
Treſilian, and above all, Robert de Vere, earl of Oxford 
he created duke of Ireland. They were obnoxious both to 
liament and people, and Richard ſtooped to the' moſt ignob 
ſures to ſave chem ; but he found that it was not in his powe 
were attainted and condemned to ſuffer as traitors ; but P 
the duke of Ireland eſcaped abroad, where they died in o 
Richard aſſociated to himſelf a new ſet of favourites. His 
and great lords, again took arms, and being headed by the 
Glouceſter, the king's uncle, they forced Richard once mi 
their terms ; but being inſincere in all his compliances, he 
pon the point of becoming more deſpotie than any king 
land ever had been, when he loſt his crown and life by a {ud 
taſtrophe. CES # 

A quarrel happened between the duke of Hereford, 
duke of Lancaſter, and the duke of Norfolk, and Richard | 
them both, with particular marks of injuſtice to the form 
now became duke of Lancaſter by his father's death. Rich 
Tying over a great army to quell a rebellion in Ireland, a ſtr 
ty was formed in England, who offered the duke of Lan: 
crown. He landed at Ravenſpur in Yorklhire, and was foo 
head of 60,000 men, all of them Engliſh. Richard hurrig 
to England, where his troops refuſing to fight, he was mad 
ner, with no more than twenty attendants, and being e: 
London, he was depoſed in full parliament, upon a formal 
of miſconduct, and ſoon after he was ſtarved to death in p 
the year 1399, the 34th of his age, and the 23d of his reig 
Though the nobility of England were poſſeſſed of great p 
the time of this revolution, yet we do not find that it abated 
fluence of the commons. They had the courage to rem 
boldly in parliament againſt the uſury, which was but te 
practiſed in England, and other abuſes of both clergy at 
and the deſtruction of the feudal powers ſoon followed, 

_ Henry the fourth *, ſon of John of Gaunt, duke of 
fourth ſon of Edward III. being ſettled in the throne of 
tn prejudice to the elder branches of Edward IIÞ's family t 
nobility were in hopes that this glaring deſect of his title wo 
der him dependent upon them. At firſt ſome conſpiracies we 
ed againſt him among his great men, but he cruſhed the 
activity and ſteadineſs, and laid a plan for reducing their ont 


* The throre being now vacant, the duke of Lancaſter ſtepped forth, 
eroſſed himſelf on his forchead, and on his breaſt, and called upon the name 
he pronounced theſe words, which I ſhall give in the original languiges Mulec 
_ their ſingularity, | , 

In the name of Fadher, Son, and Holy Ghoſt, I Henry of Lancaſter, 6 
rewme of Yuglande, and the croun, wi.h all the membres, aud the a 77 
I that am deſcenai. Ly right line of the bleve (meaning a claim in rg 7 
conung fro the gude king Henry therde, and throge that right that Gr g 
ent me, with belp of kyn, aud of my frendes, to recouer it ; the weg It 
geynt 16 be endone by def act of governance, andondoing of the ande tawth 


This was underſtood by the Piercy family, the greateſt in 
5, pe of England, who complained of Henry having depriyed 
cee be Scotch priſoners, whom they had taken in battle, and 
xford us rebellion broke out under the old earl of Northumber- 
u his ſon, the famous Henry Piercy, ſurnamed the Hot - 

at it ended in the defeat of the rebels, chiefly by the valour 
of Wales. With equal good fortune Henry ſuppreſ- 
-farrections of the Welch, under Owen Glendower ; and 
gent conceſſions to his parliament, to the commons parti- 

he at laſt conquered all oppoſition, while, to ſalve the defect 
Gi the parliament entailed the crown upon him, and the 
ale of his body, lawfully begotten, thereby ſhutting out all 
necefion, The young duke of Kothſay, heir to the crown 
land, (aſter James I. of that kingdom) falling a priſoner in- 
* hands about this time, was of infinite ſervice to his go- 
ent; and before his death, which happened in 1413, in the 
ear of his age, and 13th of his reign, he had the ſatisfaction 
is fon, and ſucceſſor, the prince of Wales, diſengage him- 
n many youthful ſollies, which had till then diſgraced his con- 


ſure 


Frgliſh marine was now ſo greatly increaſed, that we find an 
þ veſſel of 200 tons, in the Baltic, and many other ſhips. of 
harden, carrying on an immenſe trade all over Europe, but 
& Hanſe towns in particular. With regard to public liberty, 
V. as I have already hinted, was the firſt prince who gave 
Erent orders in parliament, eſpecially that of the commons, 
ne weight, It is however a little ſurpriſing, that learning 
this time at a rauch lower paſs in England, and all over Eu- 
tun it had been 200 years before. Biſhops, when teſtifying 
Las, were often forced to do it by proxy in the following 
iz, As I cannot read myſelf, N. N. hath ſubſcribed for 
x, as my lord biſhop cannot write himſelf, at his requeſt I 
hacribed.” | 

lance of trade with foreign parts was againſt England, at 
lion of Henry V. in 1413, ſo greatly had luxury increaſed, 
Wards, or the followers of Wickliffe, were exceſſively nume- 
ud had choſen Sir John Oldcaſtle for their head, but Henry 
them, and executed their leader. Henry next turned his 
muds France, which he had many incitements for invading. 

mznded a reſtitution of Normandy, and other provinces that 
a raviſhed from England in the preceding reigns; alſo the 

of certain arrears due for king John's ranſom ſince the 

« Edward III. and availing himſelf of the diſtracted tate of 
dom, he invaded it, where he firſt took Harfleur, and then 
"the French in the battle of Agincourt, which equalled thoſe 

& and Poitiers in glory to the Engliſh, but exceeded them 

Mlequer.ces, on account of the vaſt number of French prin- 

de hlood, and other great noblemen, who were there killed. 

vdo was as great a politician as a warrior, made ſuch alli- 

a divided the French among themſelves ſo effectually, that 

4 de queen of France, whoſe huſband Charles VI. was a lu- 

re to his marrying her daughter, the princeſs Catharine, 

3D2 | to 


. 


496 Es N G . © A 
to difinherit the dauphin, and to declare Henry 

uring her huſband's life, and him and is ile Rea 

rench monarchy, which muſt at this time have been en 
had not the Scots (tho' their king ill continued Henry', 
furniſhed the dauphin with vaſt ſupplies, and preſerved the 
crown for his head. Henry, however, made a triumph 
into Paris, where the dauphin was proſcribed ; and after 
the fealty of the French nobility, he returned to England 
a force that might cruſh the dauphin and his Scotch aurili 
probably would have been ſucceſsful, had he not died of 
tic diſorder, in 1422, the 34th year of his age, and the 
his reign. 

Henry V's vaſt ſucceſſes in France revived the trade of 1 
and at the ſame time increaſed and eſtabliſhed the privileg 
berties of the Engliſh commonalty. As he died when he 
34 years of age, it is hard to ſay, if he had lived, whether 
not have given the law to all the continent of Europe, wh 
then greatly diſtracted by the diviſions among its princes; | 
ther this would have been of ſervice or prejudice to the pre 
berties of his Engliſh ſubjects we cannot determine, 

By an authentic and exact account of the ordinary rev 
the crown during this reign, it appears that they amounted 
$5,71 4 I. a- year, which is nearly the ſame with the revenues 
ry IIT's time, and the kings of England had neither becon 


richer nor poorer in the courſe of 200 years. The ordinz 
ces of the government amounted to 52,507 I. ſo that the | 


Had of ſurplus only 3207 l. for the ſupport of his houſhold 
wardrobe, for the expence of embaſſies, and other articl 
ſum was nowiſe ſufficient- even in time of peace; and to 
his wars, this great conqueror was reduced to many miſerat 
he borrowed from all quarters; he pawned his jewels, at 
times the crown itſelf z he ran in arrears to his army; and 
often obliged to ſtop in the midſt of his career of vifory 

rant a truce to the enemy, I mention theſe particulars, 
reader may judge of the ſimplicity and temperance of our 
ſors three centuries ago, when the expenees of the greatel 
Europe did not much exceed the penſion of a ſuperannvated 
of the preſent age. 

It required a prince equally able as Henry IV. and V. tt 
the title of the Lanacaſter houſe to the throne of England 
VI. ſurnamed of Windſor, was no more than nine months! 
in conſequence of the treaty of Troyes, concluded by ! 
with the French court, he was proclaimed king of Fra 
as of England, He was under the tuition of his two 1 
dukes of Bedford and Glouceſter, both of them princes of 
compliſhments, virtues and courage, but unable to preſd 

brother's conqueſts. Upon the death of Charles VI. the 
of the French for his family reviyed in the perſon of his fn 
ceſſor, Charles VII. The duke of Bedford, who was 
France, performed many glorious actions, and at laſt las 
Orleans, which, if taken, would have compleated the ce 


France. The fiege was raiſed by the valour and good 


1 D 395 


al Orleans, a phenomenon hardly to be paralleled in hif- 
4 born of the loweſt extraction, and bred a cow-keeper, 
names a helper in ſtables at public inns. She muſt, notwith» 

have poſſeſſed an amazing fund of ſayacity as well as va» 
After an unparalleled train of glorious actions, and placing 
un upon her ſov'reign's head, the was accidently taken pri- 
the Englilh, who burnt her alive for a witch and a heretic. - 


land ith of the duke of Bedford, and the agreement of the duke 
dy, the great ally of the Engliſh, with Charles VII con- 
1 of WL; © the entice ruin of the Englith intereſt in France, and the 
the 


ill their fine provinces in that 1 notwithſtanding the 
courage of Talbot, the firſt earl of Shrewſbury, and their 
ers, The capital misfortune of England at this time, 
Aunion at home. The duke of Glouceſter loſt his authority 
yernment, and the king married Margaret, daughter to 
dy king of Sicily; a woman of a high ſpirit, but an impla- 
 willMipoſition ; while the cardinal of Wincheſter, who was the 
wbjet in England, if not in Europe, preſided at the head of 
aſury, and by his avarice ruined the intereſt of England, both 
E 20d abroad. Next te the Cardinal, the duke of York, who 
rer l. leutenant of Ireland, was the moſt powerful ſubject in 


unte. He was deſcended by the mother's fide from Lionel, an 
enden of Edward III. and prior in claim to the reigning king, 
becon deſcended from John of Gaunt, Edward's youngeſt fon, 
dina af: ted to keep up the diſtinction of a white roſe, that of the 


the Wo! Lancaſter being red. It is certain he paid no regard to 


(hold Fliamentary entail of the crown upon the reigning family, and 
dicke vo opportunity of forming a party to aſſert his right, but 
| to Ge firſt with the moſt profound diſſimulation. The duke of 
gerate a favourite of the queen, who was a profeſt enemy to 


x of York, but being impeached in parliament, he was ba- 
for five years, and had his head ſtruck off on board a ſhip by 
mon ſailor, This was followed by an inſurrection of 20,000 
men, headed by one Jack Cade, a man of low condition, 
our WE"! to the court a liſt of grievances, but was ſuppreſſed by the 
of the citizens of London, and the queen ſeemed to be per- 
vate kerne againſt the duke of York. The inglorious management 
Loglith affairs in France befriended him, and upon his arri- 
V. Leland from Ireland, he found a ſtrong party of the nobili- 
(ends, but being conſidered as the fomenter of Cade's rebel - 
ſe protelt the molt profound reverence to Henry. 
Frions in high power and reputation in England, next to 
of York, were the earl of Saliſbury, and his ſon the earl of 
0 l The latter had the greateſt land eſtate of any ſubje & in 
kd and his vaſt abilities, joined to ſome virtue, rendered him 
] Popular. Both father and fon were ſecretly on the fide of 
and during a fit of illneſs of the king, that duke was made 


is (00 Sr of the realm. Both fides now prepared for arms ; and the 
af ; ng, the qucen, with wonderful activity, afſembling an 
4 c ue royalilts were defeated in the firſt battle of St Alban's, 


* ting himſelf was taken priſoner. The duke of Vork was 


r Cclared protector of the kingdom, but it was not long 
before 


w „ * 1.4 WY 
before the queen reſumed all her influence in the governs 
the king, though his weakneſs became every day more yi 
covered all his authority. +. 

The duke of York upon this threw off the maſk, and in 
openly claimed the crown, and the queen was agaih defeadlf 
earl of Warwick, who was now called the King-maker, 
ment on this being aſſembled, it was enacted, that He 
poſſeſs the throne for liſe, but that the duke of York ſhoal 
him, to the excluſion of all Henry's iſſue. All, excepting 
nanimous queen, agreed to this compromiſe. - She retreated 
ward, and the king being ſtill a priſoner, ſhe pleaded his 
well, that aſſembling a freſh army, ſhe fought the battle 
field, where the duke of York was defeated and flain in 10 
left behind him three ſons, Edward, duke of York, aftersz 
ward IV. George, duke of Clarence, and Richard, duke 
ceſter, afterwards Richard III. 

It is pretty extraordinary, that though the duke of York 
party, openly aſſerted his claim to the crown, they Kill profj 
legiance to Henry; but the young duke of York prepared to 
his father's death, and obtained ſeveral victories over the 
The queen, however, advanced towards London, and deſes 
earl of Warwick, in the ſecond battle of St Alban's, ſhe « 
her huſband ; but the diſorders committed by her Northern 
diſguſted the Londoners ſo much, that ſhe durſt not enter 
- where the duke of York was received amidſt the acclamatio 
people, and proclaimed king, anno 1471, under the nam 
ward IV. while the queen and her huſband were obliged t 
Northward. She ſoon raiſed another army, and fought ti 
of Towton, the moſt bloody perhaps that ever happened in 
war. After prodigies of valour had been performed on be 
the victory remained with young king Edward, and nears”: 
men lay dead on the field of battle. Margaret and her 
were once more obliged to fly to Scotland, where they me 
generous protection. 

It may be proper to obſerve, that this civil war was 
with greater animoſity than any perhaps ever known. 
was as blood-thirſty as her opponents, and when priſoners 
ſide were made, their deaths, eſpecially if they were of 
were deferred only ſor a few hours. | 

Margaret, by the conceſſions ſhe made to the Scots, 10 
a freſh army there, and in the North of England, but wet 
feat upon defeat, till at laſt her huſband, the unfortunate 
was carried prifoner to London. 

The duke of York, now Edward IV. being crowned on! 
of June, fell in love with, and privately married Eliſabeth 
dow of Sir John Gray, though he had ſo-aetime before ſent 
of Warwick to demand the king of France's ſiſter in n 
which embaſſy he was ſucceſsful, and nothing remained 
— over the princeſs into England. When the fecre 
ward's marriage broke out, the haughty earl, deeming 5 
fronted, returned to England. inflamed with rage and P 
and from being Edward's beſt friend, became hs 


$- 6 & @& 0; 39 
ad gaining over the duke of Clarence, Edward was' made 
Mt eſcaping from his confinement, the earl of Warwick, 
"French king, Lewis XI. declared for the reſtoration of 
«ho was replaced on the throne, and Edward narrowly eſ- 
Holland, Returning from thence, he advanced to Lon- 

pretence of claiming his dukedom of York, but being 
"10 the capital, he reſumed the exerciſe of royal authority, 
pe Henry once more his priſoner, and defeated and killed 
En the battle of Barnet. A few days after, he defeated 


eated of Lancaſtrians, and made queen Margaret priſoner, 
{ his vith her ſon, prince Edward, whom Edward's brother, 
tle 0 al Clouceſter, murdered in cold blood, as he is ſaĩd (bur 


great ſhew of probability) to have done his father, Henry 


— n 2 priſoner in the Tower of London, a few days after, in 

ute WS 1471. Edward being now ſettled on the throne, was guil- 
> ntmoſt cruelty to all the Lancaſtrian party, whom he put 

York whenever he could find them, fo that they were threatened 

prof er extermination. | 

ed to meat object of his vengeance was Henry, earl of Richmond, 

the ; deſcended from John Beaufort, the eldeſt ſon of the earl of 


who was the eldeſt ſon of John of Gaunt, by his laſt wife 
he Swineford, but born in adultery, during her huſband's 
thern ; This diſability, however, was afterwards removed, both 
pe and by the parliament, and the deſcendents of John of 
by that lady, as far as could be done, were declared legiti- 
name The laſt lord, John, duke of Somerſet, left a daughter, 
rt, who was married to Edmund Tudor, earl of Richmond, 
ir ſon was Henry, earl of Richmond (afterwards Henry VII.) 
that time, lived in France to ſecure himſelf from the cruelty 
n dard. The reader may ſee, from the detail of this important 
nearer, that the young earl of Richmond had not the ſmalleſt 
| blood (even ſuppoſing the illegitimacy of his anceſtors had 
moved) to the crown of England. 
ngdom of England was, in 1474, in a deplorable ſituation. 
Ig was immerſed in expenſive and criminal luxuries, in which 
mitated by his great men, who, to ſupport their extrava- 
became penſioners to the French king. The parliament 
at only as the executioners of Edward's bloody mandates. 
blood in England was ſhed upon ſcaffolds, and even the 
Carence ſell a victim to his brothers jealouſy. Edward, 
9 amule the public, and partly to ſupply the valt expence of 
preter.ded ſometimes to quarrel, and ſometimes to treat, 
ance; but his irregularities brought him to his death (1483) 
on - chird year of his reign, and forty-ſecond of his age. 
Naltanding the turbulence of the times, the trade and ma- 
s of England increaſed during the reigns of Henry VI. 
rd IV, 80 early as 1440, a navigation act was thought 


ned ae Engliſh, as the only means to preſerve to themſelves the 
vere Abeng the carriers of their own merchandize, but ſoreign 
g hi *Ferented Henry's paſſing the bill for that purpoſe. The 
1nd 3 Printing, which was imported into England by William 
1 «6 cel ſome countenance from Edward, is the chief 


glor y 


400 E N. G I. A N 9 


re- tranſlations or compilations from the French, or Mont 
but it muſt be acknowledged, at the fame time, that liter 


glory of his reign, but learning in general was then ina 
in England. The Lord Tiptoft was its great patron, and 


* 


have been the firſt Engliſh nobleman who cultivated wha 


called the belles lettres. The books printed by Canton, a 


ter this period, made a more rapid and general 
Engliſh, than it did in any other European nation, 
Edward IV. left two ſons by his queen, who had «x 
power with no great prudence, by having nobilitated max 
obſcure relations. Her eldeſt ſon, Edward V. was about 
and his uncle, the duke of Glouceſter, taking advantag 
queen's unpopularity among the great men, found means f 
dize her iſſue, by act of parliament, under the ſcandalons ; 
a pre · contract between her father and another lady. The dul 
ſame time, was declared guardian of the kingdom, and, x 
cepted of the crown, which was offered him by the Londa 
ving firſt put to death all the nobility and great men, 
thought to be well affected to the late king's family, Whet 
Edward and his brother were. murdered in the Tower by | 
tion, is doubtful. The molt probable opinion is, that they 
deſtinely ſent abroad by his orders, and that the elder died, 
the younger ſurvived, and was the ſame who was af 
known by the name of Perkin Warbeck. Be this as it 
Engliſh were prepoſſeſſed ſo ſtrongly againſt Richard, as 
murderer of his nephews, that the earl of Richmond, wht 
mained in France, carried on a ſecret correſpondence wi 
mains of Edward TV.”s friends, and by offering to marry 
daughter, he was encouraged to invade England, at the 
bout 2000 foreign troops, but they were ſoon joined by 7 
gliſ and Welſh. A battle between him and Richard, vi 
the head of 15,000 men, enſued at Boſworth field, in which 
after diſplaying moſt aſtoniſhing acts of perſonal valour, 
having been firſt abandoned by a main diviſion of his arm 
Lord Stanely and his brother, in the year 1485. . 
There can ſcarcely be a doubt, that the crimes of Rich 
been exaggerated by hiſtorians. He was exemplary in bis 
tive juſtice. He kept a watchful eye over the great bare 
oppreſſions he aboliſhed, and was a father to the comma 
He founded the ſociety of Heralds, an inſtitution, wal 
time, was found neceſſary to prevent diſputes among gres 
During his reign, ſhort as it was, we have repeate iſtand 
relieving cities and corporations that had gone into decays 
remarkable for the encouragement of the hardware mann 
all kinds, and for preventing their being imported inte 
no fewer than 72 different kinds being prohibited imp 
one act. He was the firſt Engliſh king who appointed a 6 
the ſuperintendency of Engliſh commerce abroad, one Sr 
nominated for Piſa, with an income of the fourth parts 
cent. on all goods of Engliſhmen imported to or exported p 
I ſhall not enter into the ſubject of the concern he 4 
poted murder of his two nephews, but only obſerve, U 


${ 6 N A N 5. 101 
miament, by baſtardizing them, cut them off from the 
to the crown. a 5 | . 4 
po ſame act of baſtardy affected the daughters, as well 
as of the late wa yet no diſputes were raifed upon the le- 
of the princeſs Elizabeth, eldeſt daughter of Edward IV: 
In had been before concerted, married Henry of Lan- 
| of Richmond, thereby uniting both houſes, which hap- 
in end to the long and bloody wars between the contending 
York and Lancaſter. Henry, however, reſted his right 
ave, and ſeemed to pay no regard to the advantages of 
toe, He was the moſt ſagacious monarch that ever had 
a England ; but, at the ſame time, the moſt jealous of his 
fir he ſhut up the earl of Warwick, ſon to the duke of Cla- 
ther to Edward IV. a cloſe priſoner in the Tower, tho 
" 2 boy, and though nothing was alledged againſt him but 
mouity to the houſe of York. He was the firſt who inſtitu - 
lard called Yeomen, which ſtill ſubſiſts ; and, in ĩmitation 
leceſfor, he gave an irrecoverable blow to the dangerous 
aſſumed by the barons, in aboliſhing liveries, and retain- 
wich every malefactor could fhelter himſelf from the law, 
ing 2 nobleman's livery, and attending his perſon. Some 
| happened in the beginning of his reign, but they were 
preſſed, as was the impoſture of Lambert Simnel, who pre- 
be the impriſoned earl of Warwick. The deſpotic court 
aber owed its original to Henry, but, at the ſame time, 
be acknowledged, that he paſſed many acts, eſpecially for 


preſſed their gratitude, by the great ſupplies and benevo- 
afforded him, and as a finiſhing ſtroke to the feudal te- 


b 
* aa paſſed by which the barons and gentlemen of landed 
uch! re at liberty to ſell and mortgage their lands, without 


vl aces for their alienation. 
um ve regard its conſequences, is perhaps the moſt import - 
let ever paſſed in an Engliſh parliament, though its tenden- 


\ his 4 of trade, and the diſcovery of America, had broken 
200 able force into England, and monied property being 
amol tie hands of the commons; the eſtates of the barons be- 


vic” but without any of their dangerous privileges, and thus 


rea powers, were ſoon extinguiſhed in England. 

er encountering and ſurmounting many diffreuſties both 
nd Ireland, was attacked in the poſſeſſion of his throne, 
ay man, one Perkin Warbeck, who pretended to be the 
nto lt, cond ſon to Edward IV. and was acknowledged as 
np le dutcheſs of Burgundy, Edward's ſiſter. We ſhall not 


d entures of this young man, which were various and 
= + but it is certain that many of the Engliſh, with the 
art ance and Scotland, believed him to be what he pretend- 
d fro r endeavoured to prove the death of Edward V. and his 
id in lever did it to the public ſatisfaction; and tho* James 


au ed diſmiſſed Perkin out of his dominions, being enga- 
Ry) of marriage with Henry's eldeſt daughter, yet by the 
3 E. kind 


d navigation, that were highly for the benefit of his ſubjects. 


ly to have been known to the politic king. Luxury, by 


| 
| | 
ö 
f 
ö 
] 
| 
| 


: 


402 EB i: & Li: A Ma 
kind manner in which he entertained and diſmiſſed him, x 
that he believed him to be the real duke of York, elect 
refuſed to deliver up his perſon, whiels he might have & 
honour, had he thought him an impoſtor. | Perkin, ain 
unfortunate adventures, fell into Henry's hands, and we; 
in the tower of London, from whence he endeayoured to « 
long with the innocent earl of Warwick, for which Perkin w 
ed, and the earl beheaded. It is ſaid, that Perkin Made 4 
ſion of his impoſtures before his death, but if he did, it wig 
been extorted from him, either upon the bope of pardon 
fear of torture. In 1499, Henry's. eldeſt fon, Arthur, x 
Wales, was married to the princeſs Catharine, of Arragon, 
ter to the king and queen of Spain, and he dying foou af 
was Heury's reluctance to refund her great dowry, that be 
ed to her being married again to his ſecond ſon, afterward 
VIII. on pretence that the firſt match had not been confug 
Soon after, Henry's eldeſt daughter, the princeſs Marg 
ſent with a molt magnificent train to Scotland, where” ſhe y 
ried to James IV. Henry, at the time of his death, which 
ed in 1509, the 52d year of his age, and 24th in his rej 
poſſeſſed of 15,800,000 1. ſterling, which is equivalent to five 
at preſent, ſo that he may be ſuppoſed to have been-malter 
ready money. than all the kings in Europe beſides pollel 
mines of Peru and Mexico being then only beginning to be 

I have already mentioned the vaſt alteration-which hapy 
the conſtitution of England, during Henry the VII. reg 
exceſſive love of money was the probable reaſon why he dd 
come maſter of the Weſt- Indies, he having the firlt offer of 
covery from Columbus, whoſe propoſals being rejected by 
that great man applied to the court of Spain, aud be let 
the diſcovery of a new world, in the year 1492, which he 
after a paſſage of 33 days, and took poſſeſſion of the count 
name of the king and queen of Spain. Henry however 
mends by encouraging Cabot, who diſcovered the main 
North America, in 1498, and we may obſerve, te the pra 

king, that ſometimes, in order to.,promote- commence, i 
merchants ſums of money, without intereſt, when he . 
t! ir ſtock was not ſufficient for thoſe enterprizes which 
in view. | 

The fine arts were as far advanced in England at the 
Henry VIII. 1509, as in any European country, if we ed 
ly, and perhaps no prince ever entered with greater advan 
he did on the exerciſe of royalty, Young, - vigorous, * 
without any rival, he held the balance of power in Europe 
certain, that he neglected theſe advantages in commerce: u 
his father became too lately acquainted, Imagining he 
ſtand in need of a ſupply, he did not; improve Cabot s © 
and he ſuffered the Eaſt and Welt Indies to be engr offed | 
gal and Spain. His'vanity engaged him too much in rs 
the continent, and his flatterers encouraged him — 
tions for the conqueſt of all France, Theſe projet * 
bliſhing what is properly called a navy royal, for che per- 


« the nation (a moſt excellent meaſure) led him into inere · 
ances, He was on all occaſions the dupe of the emperor 
n the pooreſt prince in Europe, and early in his reign he 
lf almoſt entirely up to the guidance of the celebrated car- 
fer. While involved in a war with France, his lieutenant, 


75 | of Surry, conquered and killed James IV. of Scotland, who 
e Eagland, and he became a candidate for the German 
wy luring its VAcancys but ſoon refigned his pretenſions to 
— Lol France, and Charles of Auſtria, king of Spain, who 


&d in 1519. Henry's conduct, in the long and bloody wars 
thoſe princes, was directed by Wolſey's views upon the 
\ which he hoped to gain by the intereſt of Charles, but 
vnſlf twice deceived, he perſuaded his maſter to declare 
r Francis, who had been taken priſoner at the battle of 
Henry, however, continued to be the dupe of all parties, 
n great part of their expences, till at laſt he was forced to 
| burdens upon his ſubjects, 
n continued all this time the great enemy of the reformation, 
champion of the popes, and the Romill: church. He wrote 
inf Luther, about the year 1521, for which the pope gave 
te of Deſender of the Faith, which his ſueceſſors retain to 
; but about the year 1527, he began to have ſome ſcruples 
ard to the validity of his marriage with his brother's widow, 
wt ſay, how far on this occaſion he might be influenced by 
ns of the famous Anne Bullen, maid of honour to the 
whom he married, before he had obtained the proper bulls 
ee from the pope. The ditficulties he met with in this pro- 
ned Wolſey, who died of heart-break, after being ſtript 
mnenſe power and poſſeſſions ; and had introduced into the 
lwour Cranmer, who was afterwards archbiſhop of Canter» 


(:xiag, though nice conjuncture of affairs, it is well known, 
Henry at laſt to throw off all relation to or dependence up - 
church ot Rome, and to bring about a reformation, in which, 
many of the Romiſh errors and ſuperſtitions were retained. 
derer could have effected this mighty meaſure, had it not 
us deſpotie diſpoſition, which broke out on every occaſion. 
Light ſuſpicion of his queen's inconſlancy, and after a ſham 
ſe cut off her head, and put to death ſome of her neareſt rela- 
ud he was declared arbitrary by repeated acts of parliament, 
Wembled only as a board to execute his pleafures. The diſ- 
| of the religious houſes, and the immenſe wealth that came to 
; by {cizing all the eccleſiaſtical property in his kingdom, en · 
ua to give tull ſcope to his ſanguinary diipoſition, ſo that the 
not innocent blood of England was daily ſhed on ſcaffolds, 
F Gays paſſed that were not marked with ſome illuſtrious vic · 
" tyranny, Among others was the aged counteſs of Saliſ- 


' 


Elcended immediately from Edward IV. and mother to the 
Tale, the marquis of Exeter, the lord Montague, and 
h the blood royal, for holding a correſpondence with that 


Wd wife was Jane Seymour, daughter to a gentleman of 
$zE2 ſortung 


z 38 $ L A. 1 D. | 403 


. 
: 4 


E N G L 1 
ortune and family; but ſhe died in bringing ing Ed 

from His fourth wife was Anne, ſiſter to RY 
He diſliked her ſo much, that he ſcarce bedded with her 
taining a divorce, he ſuffered her to reſide in England, . 
of 30001. a year. His fifth wife was Catharine Howard 
the duke of Norfolk, whoſe head he cut off for anti- unptis 
nancy. His laſt wife was queen Catharine Par, in whoſe 
he died, after narrowly eſcaping being brought to the flak 
religious opinions, which favoured the. reformation. Hear 
ty increaſed with his years, and was now exerciſed pror 
on Proteſtants and Catholics. He put the brave earl of 
death without a crime being proved againſt him; and h 
the duke of Norfolk, muſt have ſuffered next day, had he 
ſaved by Henry's own death, in the year 1547, in the 5 
his age, and the 38th of his reign. | 

The ſtate of England during the reign of Henry VIII. 
help of printing, too well known to be enlarged upon here. Wk; : 
tention to the nayal ſecurity of England is highly comm 
and it is certain that he employed the deſpotic power he w 
ſed off, in many reſpects, for the glory and intereſt of his 
Without inquiring into his religions motives, it muſt be 
confeſſed, that had the reformation gone through all the fc 
ſcribed by the laws, and the courts of juſtice, it probably ne 
have taken place, or at leaſt not for many years; and 
Henry's perſonal crimes or failings might have been, the 
he made of the church's property among his courtiers and 
ites, and thereby reſcuing it from d hands, undoubte 
moted the preſent greatneſs of England. With regard 
ing and the arts, Henry was a generous encourager of bc 
gave a penſion to Eraſmus, which is another name for le 
ſelf. He brought to England, encouraged, and proted 
Holbein, that excellent painter and architect; and in his rey 
men's houſes began to have the air of Italian magnificenc 
gularity. He was a conſtant and generous friend to Crane 
though he was, upon the whole, rather whimſical than { 
his own principles of religion, he advanced and encouray 
who became afterwards the inſtruments of a more pure rel 

In this reign the Bible was ordered to be printed in Engi 
was united and incorporated with England. Ireland . 
into a kingdom, and Henry took the title of king of Ireiaal 

Edward VI. was but nine years of age at the time of hu 
death; and after ſome diſputes were over, the regency * 
in the perſon of his uncle the earl of Hertford, afterwards 
tector and duke of Somerſet, a declared friend and patron © 
formation, and a bitter enemy to the ſee of Rome. Mut 
popiſh leaven, however, ſtill remained in the council, v. 
embroiled at once with France and Scotland. The protect 
ed with an army into Scotland, to force that people to $ 
young queen Mary, only child of James V. in marriage © 
with a view to unite the two kingdoms, a meaſure whict 
king had recommended with his dying breath to his execute 
protector defeated the Scots at Pinkey, but the match f. 


. 1 Err DE crea EC 


E N GL A N D wy 
ad the ſactions now forming againſt the protector, obliged 


ike « with his army to England. His own brother, who 
ber el the queen dowager, was at the head of his enemies, 
on dying, be made his addreſſes to the princeſs Eliſabeth, af- 
rden. This gave a handle to the protector to bring his 
udo was lord admiral, to the block, where he loſt his head. 
ole wader is to obſerve in general, that the reformation was not 
„bout many public diſturbances. The common people, 


te reign of Henry and Edward, being deprived of the vaſt | 
u had from abbeys and religious houſes, and being ejected 
ir ſmall corn-growing farms, had often taken arms, but 
42 often ſuppreſſed by the government; and ſeveral of theſe 
Sons were cruſhed in this reign. A war, which was not 
woilj managed, broke out with Scotland; and the protector, 
upon the whole, a weak, but conſcientious man, was ſo 


IL wo religion, that he was firſt driven from the helm of 
dere. then loſt his head upon a ſcaffold, by a faction formed e- 
omen & Papiſts and pretended Proteſtants. Dudley, who was 
he duke of Northumberland, then took the lead in the govern- 


ud drove Edward, who, though young, meant extremely 
d was a fincere Proteſtant, into many impolitic acts, ſo that 


" (ol: vole, England never made a poorer figure than it did in 
i |; 

ind WWWrformation, however, went on rapidly, through the zeal of 
the WW, and other, ſome of them foreign, divines. In ſome caſes, 
Ss any with regard to the princeſs — they loſt ſight of that 
dure en, which the reformers had before ſo ſtrongly recommend- 
zard WY ome cruel ſanguinary executions, on account of religion, 
of bole. Edward's youth excuſes him from blame, and his charit- 
or leaWonments, which (till exiſt and flouriſh, ſhew the goodneſs of 
otec He died of a deep conſumption in 1553, in the 16th year 


de, and the 7th of his reign. 
d, on his death-bed, from his zeal for religion, had made 
Tanouconlitutional will, for he ſct aſide his filter Mary from the 
*, which was claimed by Lady Jane Gray, daughter to the 
 duttolk, youngeſt ſiſter to Henry VIII. This lady, tho? 
karcely reached her 19th year, was a prodigy of learning 
ne; but the bulk of the Engliſh nation recognized the claim 
macels Mary, who cut off Lady Jane's head, and that of 
kd lord Guildford Dudley, ſon to the duke of Northum- 
who ſuffered in the fame manner. | 
bing thus ſettled on the throne, ſuppreſſed an inſurrection 
RM and proceeded like a female fury to re-eltabliſh popery, 
ron did al] over England. She recalled cardinal Pole from 
a, made him the principal inſtrument of her cruelties, and 
p the James of perſecution, in which archbiſhop Cranmer, 
' Ridley, Hooper, and Latimer, and many other illuſtri- 
klors of the Engliſh reformed church, were conſumed ; not 
Na vaſt number of other ſacrifices of both ſexes, and all ranks, 
ed through every quarter of the kingdom. Bonner bi- 
Laon, and Gardiner biſhop of Wincheſter, were, under 
” tt Executioners of her bloody mandates ; and * = 
ved, 


46 5 S L ANN 
2 ſhe-would have endeavoured to exterminate all her 
jects, 2 ' | 

| — was married to Philip II. king of Spain, who 
elf, was an unfeeling bigot to popery z- and the chief prai 
reign is, that by the marriage articles, proviſion was dad 
independency of the Engliſh crown. By the aflitance « 
which the furniſhed to her huſband, he gained dhe import 
of St Quintia ; but that victory was ſo ill improved, that th 
under the duke of Guiſe, ſoon after took Calais, the only p 
remaining to the Engliſh in France. This loſs, which » 
owing to cardinal Pole's ſecret: conneQtions with the Fren 
is ſaid to have broken Mary's heart, who died in 1558, it 
year of her life, and 6th of her reign. © In the heat of 
cuting flames, (ſays a contemporary writer of credit) were 
aſhes, 5 biſhops, 21 divines, 8 gentlemen, 84 artificers, 
huſbandmen, ſervants, and labourers 5 26 wives, 20 widoy 
gins, 2 boys, and 2 infants; one of them whiped to death 
ner, and the other, ſpringing out of the mother's womb 
ſtake as ſhe burned, thrown again into the fire.” 

Elizabeth, daughter to Henry VIII. by Anne Bullen, 
the throne under the moſt diſcouraging circumſtances, both 
and abroad. Popery was the eſtabliſhed religion of Engl 
title to the crown, on account of the circumſtances attending 
ther's marriage and death, was diſputed by Mary queen 
grand - child to Henry VIPs eldeſt daughter, and wiſeto the 
of France; and the only ally ſhe had on the continent”w 
king of Spain, who was the life and ſoul of the popith ca 
abroad and in England. Elizabeth was no more than 25 
age, at the time of her inauguration, but her ſufferings unde 
gotted liſter, joined to the ſuperiority of her genius, had ta 
caution and policy, and ſhe ſoon conquered all difficukics, 
mention every glorious action of her reign, would far en 
bounds, I ſhall therefore here only touch on the great lin 
government. / 

In matters of religion ſhe ſucceeded with ſurprizing fac 
in her firſt parliament, in 1559, the laws eſtabliſhing popery 
pealed, her ſupremacy was reitored, and an act of uniform 
ſoon after. With regard to her title, ſhe took advantaged 
vided ſtate of Scotland, and formed a party there, by wing 
now become the widow of Francis II. of France, was 0 
renounce, or rather to ſuſpend her claim. Elizabeth, not 
with this, ſent troops and money, which ſupported the vc 
contents, till Mary's unhappy marriage, and her other m 
drove her to take reſuge in Elizabeth's dominions, where 
been often promiſed a ſafe and an honourable aſylum. E 
known how unſaithful Elizabeth was to this profeſſion of | 
and that ſhe detained the unhappy priſoner 18 years i 
then brought her to a ſham trial, pretending that Mary 
the crown, and, without the leaſt proof of guilt, cut of 
an action which muſt have tarniſhed all the glories of 
it been a thouſand times more ſplendid than it was. 


As to Elizabeth's affairs with Spain, which formed, in 


Wy” NN: G Lt &) Ni: i: 40 
b of her government, they exhibit ſcenes of wonderful 
100 wilog from her own maſterly conduct, partly from 
xx of her 3 and partly from the intrepidity of her 
ea and land. | | 
I Philip who had been the huſband of her late ſiſter, upon 
\ 2ccelſion to the throne, offered to marry her, but ſhe 
jj avoided his addreſſes ; and by a train of ſkxilful-negoeia- 
urn ner court and that of France, ſhe kept the balance of 
6 undetermi ned, that ſhe had leiſure to unite her people at 
to eſtabliſiu an excellent internal policy in her dominions. 
ines ſupported the proteſtants of France; and the ſome - 
+ the dukes of Anjou and Alenzon the ſtrongeſt aſſurances 
ir other of them thould be her huſband ; by which the kept 
, who dreaded Spain, at the ſame time in fo good humour 
x orernment, that it ſhewed no reſentment when {he cut off 
s head. 
. 5 was no longer to be impoſed upon by Elizabeth's 
bick had amuſed and baffled him in every quarter; it is well 
at he made uſe of the immenſe ſums which he drew from 
Merico, in equipping the moſt formidable armament that 
mer had been put to ſea, and a numerous army of veterans, 
A prince of Parma, the belt captain of that age; and that 
a papal bull for abſolving Elizabeth's ſabjects from their 
r No reader can be fo uninformed as to be ignorant of the 
aces, that the largeneſs of the Spaniſh ſhips proved diſad · 
vsto them on the ſeas where they engaged; that the lord 
Howard, and the brave ſea · officers under him, engaged, beat, 
kd the Spanith fleet for ſeveral days, and that the ſeas and 
lniſhed the deſtruction which the Englith arms had begun, 
tw of the Spanith ſhips recovered their ports. Next to the 
brd Howard of Effingham, Sir Francis Drake, captain 
and captain Forbiſher, diltinguiſhed themſelves againſt this 
be armada, in which the Spaniards are ſaid to have loſt 8 
mar, large and ſmall, and 13,500 men. | 
Kh had for ſome time ſupported the revolt of the Hollan- 
d Paitip, and had ſent them her favourite, the earl of Lei- 
do ated as her viceroy and general in the low countries, 
Leiceller behaved ill, yet her meaſures were ſo wiſe, that 
 eltabliſhed their independency upon Spain, and then ſhe 
iter fleets under Drake, Raleigh, the earl of Cumberland, 
gallant naval officers, into the Eaſt and Weſt Indies, from 
ome prodigious treaſures taken from the Spaniards 
plan 
* death of the earl of Leiceſter, the young earl of Eſſex 
=abetl”s chief favourite, and commanded the land forces 
pedition with the lord admiral Howard, in which they took 
red the city of Cadiz in Spain, deſtroyed the ſhips in the 
ud did other damage to the Spaniards, to the amount of 
lions of ducats. | 
dal in her old age grew diſtruſtful, peeviſh, and jealous. Tho? 
Medly loved the earl of Eſſex, ſhe teized him by her capri- 


ao the adneſs of takin g arms, and then cut off his head. 
She 


40s E N G 1. 4A N 
She complained that ſhe had been betrayed into tha 
meaſure, which occaſioned a ſinking of her ſpifity,' that u 
to her grave in 1603, the 7oth, yeat of her age, and y 
reign, having previouſly named her kinſman James VI. U. 
land, and ſon to Mary, for her ſucceſſor. 

The above, as I have already hinted; fromthe great lin 
zabeth's reign, and from them may be traced; either im 
remotely, every act of her ———ů— She < i 
tants in Germany againſt the hoaſe of Auſtria; of u 
king of Spain, was the head. She cruſhed the papilts h 
dominions for the fame reaſon, and made a further reforms 
church of England, in which ſtate it has remained evers 
1600 the Engliſh Eait- India company received its fir} f 
that trade being then in the hands of the Portegneſe ( 
quence of their having firſt diſcovered the paſſage to Ind 
Cape of Good Hope) who at that time were ſubjeds to$ 
faQories were eſtabliſhed in China, Japan, India, Ambon 
and Sumatra. | | 

Before queen Elizabeth's reign, the kings of England hy 
recourſe to the city of Antwerp, for voluntary loans; andt 
dit was ſo low, that, beſides the exorbitant intereſt of ot 
cent. they were obliged to make the city of London join in 
rity. The trade to Turkey was begun about 1583 and d 
merce was immedrately confined to a company by queen 
Before that time, the grand Signior had always conceived 
to be a dependent province of France. About 1590 there 
London four perſons only rated in the ſubſidy book f 
400 J. In 1567 there were found on inquiry to be 4851 f 
all natiens in London, of whom 3838 were Flemings, and 
Scots. 

As to Elizabeth's internal government, the ſncceſſes el 
have diſguiſed it, for ſhe was tar from being a friend to pe 
berty, and ſhe was guiity of many ſtretches of power az 
moſt ſacred rights of Engliſhmen. Before I cloſe this ſuon 
of her reign, I am to obſerve, that through the practices oft 
niards with the Iriſh Roman catholics, ſhe found great am 
keep that iſland in ſubjection, and at the time of her deati 
vernment there had gone into great diſorder. 

We can ſcarce require a ſtronger proof that the Englilt i 
be tired of Elizabeth, than the joy teſtified by all ranks & 
ceſſion of her ſucceſſor, notwithſtanding the long inveterat 
ſities between the two kingdoms. James was far from bei 
tute of natural abilities for government, but he had received 
impreſſions of the regal office, and too high an opinion d 
dignity, learning, and political talents. It was his mio 
he mounted the Englith throne under a full conviRion that 
entitled to all the unconſtitutional powers that had beene 
Elizabeth, and the houſe of Tudor; and while be was dan 
an almoſt unlimited prerogative, there was not ſo much ® 
regiment in England to maintain his extenſive claims} 4 
proof that he fincerely believed his pretenſions to be well gi 
He made no allowance for the glories of Elizabeth; v 


8 N- > &+ Aa 409 


this red, diſguiſed her moſt arbitrary ads; and none for the 
hat h. entiments which the improvement of knowledge and 
ind od then diffuſed through Englagd. It is needleſs, per- 
11.8. dat the vaſt increaſe of property through trade and 
| which enabled the Engliſh at the ſame time to defend their 
ames's firſt attempt of great conſequence was to effect an 
ten England and Scotland; but though he failed in this 
the averſion of the Englith to that meaſure, he ſhewed no 
Sntment at the diſappointment. It was an r to 
beginning of his reign that the courts of Rome and Spain 
bt to be his enemies; and this opinion was increaſed by 
ry and defeat of the gun-powder treaſon 7. 

rakes notice, in ſeveral preceding parts of this work, of 
ligations which commerce and colonization owed to this 
ad, in fact, he laid the foundations of all the advantages 
Engliſh have reaped from either. That his pedantry was 
cannot be denied; and it is certain that he had no juſt 
the Engliſh conſtitution and liberties. This led him into 
ard diſputes with his parliament, and has thrown a molt 
ble (hade upon his memory. Without inquiring from what 
love of peace proceeded, I may venture to alem, that it 
dire of many bleſſings to England; aud though his per- 
pociations have given riſe to much ſatire againſt his perſon 
ament, yet they were leſs expenſive and deſtructive to his 
| any wars he could have entered into. He reſtored to 
d their cautionary towns, upon diſcharging part of the 
that was upon them ; but he procured from Spaiu at the 
an acknowledgement of their independency. | 

gare his daughter the princeſs Eliſabeth in marriage to the 
laline, the moſt powerful proteſtant prince in Germany, 
3 F and 


#2 ſcheme of the Roman catholics to cut off at one blow the king, lords, 
0s, at the meeting of parliament, when it was alſo expected that the queen, 
Wales, would be preſent. The manner of enliſting- any new conſpi- 
mth, and adminiſtring the ſacrament; and this dreadful ſeetet, after be- 
ly kept near 48 months, was happly diſcovered in the following manner: 
js vore the long wiſhed for meeting of parliament, a Roman cathclie 
4 letter, which had been delivered to his ſervant by an unknown hand. 
Ang him to ſhift off his a*tendance on parliament at that time, but which 
* kind of explanation, The nobleman, though ke conſidered the letter 
wempt to frighten ard ridicule him, thought proper to lay it before the 
dying the contents with more attention, began to ſuſpect ſome dangers 
wy by gun poweer, and it wes judged adviſable to inſpect all the vaults 
Wt paliament, but the ſearch was purpoſely del.yed till the night imme» - 
wing the meeting, when a juſtice of peace was ſent with proper attendants, 
- oor of the vaulc under the upper houſe, finding one Fawkes, who 
uy ul his prepara. ions, he immediately ſeized him, and at ihe fame 
= © veults 36 barrels of powner, which had keen carefully conceal- 
and piles of wood, The match, with every thing proper for ſet- 
ten, wer: found in Fawkes's pocket, whoſe countenance beſpoke his 
= nd who, after regretting that he had loſt the opportunity of de- 
K. Weretins, made a tuil diicovery; and the conſpirators, who never 
An . deing eiged by the country people, con ſeſſed their guilt, and 
” "oa e parts of London. Notwithſtanding this horrid crime, 
ICS were fo devoted to Garnet, a Jeſuit, one of the conſpirators, 


Mo mig loc : ; : . . 
142103 39 be wrought by his blood, and ig Spain he was con dered 


4mñj%%% E T 1. A i 
and he ſen after aflumed the crown of Bohemia. They 
James has been much abuſed for his tame behaviour after 
had loſt his kingdom and eleQorate by the imperial arms: 
to be obſerved, that he always oppoſed his ſon-in-law ak 
crown of Bohemia; that had he kindled a war to r. 
that and his electorate, he probably would have flood 
fame, excepting the feeble and uncertain afliſtance he u 
received from the elector's dependents and friends in Germ 
thing however is more certain than that James furniſhed 
with large ſums of money to retrieve them, and that } 
raiſed a regiment of 2,200 men, under Sir Horace Vere, 
ried them over to Germany, where the Germans, under 
quis of Anſpach, refuſed to ſecond them againſt Spinola 
erg. and that the elector hurt his own cauſe by not 

rave count Mansfield the command of his troops ink 
fpach. | 

James has been greatly and juſtly blamed for his parti 
vourites. His firſt was Robert Car, a private Scots gentle 
was raifed to be firſt miniſter and earl of Somerſet. Hen 
counteſs of Efſex, who had obtained a divorce from her 
and was with her found guilty of poiſoning Sir Thomas 
in the Tower; but James, contrary as it is ſaid to a folem 
made, pardoned them both. His next favourite was 
liers, a private Engliſh gentleman, who, upon Somerſet' 
was admitted to an unuſual ſhare of favour and familiari 
ſovereign. James had at that time formed a ſyſtem of poli 
taching himſelf intimately to the court of Spain, that it u 
him in recovering the Palatinate ; and to this ſyſtem he | 
ced the brave Sir Walter Raleigh, on a charge of havinge 
hoſtilities againſt the Spaniſh ſettlements in the Well - Ind 
having loſt his eldeſt ſon Henry, prince of Wales, who 
vincible antipathy to a popiſh match, threw his eyes upon 
ta of Spain, as a proper wiſe for his ſon Charles, who hat 
ed to that principality. Buckingham, who was equally a 
with the fon as with the father, fell in with the prince“ 
humour, and againſt the king's will they travelled in « 
Spain, where a moſt ſolemn farce of courtſhip was played 
prince returned without his bride, and had it not been for 
partiality in his favour, the earl of Briſtol, who was then 
Ne in Spain, would probably have brought Bucking 

_ 

James was all this while perpetually jarring with hs 
whom he could not perſuade to furniſh money equal to li 
and at laſt he agreed to his ſon's marrying the prince 
Maria, filter to Lewis XIII. and daughter to Henry ti 
France. James died before the completion of this mate" 
thought that had he lived, he would have diſcarded bat 
His death happened in 1625, in the gyth year of his 23 
reign over England of 22 years. As to the progrels of 
learning under his reign, it has been already deſcrided. 
eouraged and employed that excellent painter, vir Peter 
bens, as well as Inigo Jones, who reſtored the pure © 


Ck QC i 4&4 I BB 411 


b England. His was the golden reign for theological learn- 
ander him poetical genius, though not much encouraged 
arrived at its vertical point. 

«1, was unfortunate in his marriage with the princeſs Hen · 
i He ſeems to have been but a cold lover, and he quar- 
+ and ſent back her favourite attendants a few days after 
in England. On the other hand, ſhe had a high ſpirit, 
4:nd difliked every thing that was incompatible in govern» 
4 her Italian and arbitrary education, and was a diſagree» 
r notwithitanding her huſband's ſubmiſſion and tenderneſs. 
i of the people had forced the late king into a breach with 


der nd Charles early gave ſuch indications of his partiality for 
4 ham, and his own deſpotic temper, that the parliament was 
furniſhing him with money for carrying on the war, In 


ime Buckingham perſuaded Charles to take the part of the 
Huzonots, in their quarrel with that crown. They were ſo 
ed, though Charles was fincere in ſerving them, that 
was reduced to extremity, by which the proteſtant inter- 
ned an irrecoverable blow in France. The blame of all the 
carriages and diſgraces was thrown by, the almolt unani- 
vice both of the parliament and people upon the favourite; 
tered himſelf from their vengeance under the royal pro- 
til he was murdered by one Felton, a ſubaltern officer, as 
rady to embark for the relief of Rochelle, which ſoon after 
ned to cardinal Richheu. | 

lech of the duke of Buckingham, which happened in 1628, 
it i deter Charles from his arbitrary proceedings, which the 
patriots in that enlightened age conſidered as ſo many acts 
uy, He, without authority of parliament, laid arbitrary 


nde vpon trade, which were refuſed to be paid by many of 
ho ans and members of the houſe of commons. Some of 
don! impriſoned, and the judges were checked for admitting 
\ had 


dal, The houſe of commons reſented thoſe proceedings by- 
[up a protelt, and denying admittance to the gentleman- 
de black rod, who came to adjourn them, till it was finiſh- 
ls ſerved only to widen the breach, and the king diſſolved 
neat, after which he exhibiced informations againſt nine 
wit eminent members, among whom was the great Mr 
They objected to the juriſdiction of the court, but their 
ger. ruled, and they were ſent to priſon during the king's 


| fling now operated towards the deſtruQion of Charles. 
ons had voted him no money even for the maintenance of 
ld, and preſuming on what had been practiſed in reigns 
principles of liberty were imperfſectly, or not at all under- 
r levied money upon monopolies of ſalt, ſoap, and ſuch ne- 
ad other obſolete claims, particularly for knighthood. 
"ment decoming every day more and more unpopular, 
j2 divine, Prynne, a Lawyer, and Boſtwick, a phyſician, 
105 men of mean parts, but deſperately reſolute and fiery, 

* (rympet of {edition, and their puniſhments were ſo ſe- 
ey increaſed the unpopularity of the government. Un- 
g$ F 2 fortunately 


410 E M 1 
and he ſc1n after aſſumed the crown of Bohemia. The we 
James has been much abuſed for his tame behaviour after that 
had loſt his kingdom and eleQorate by the imperial arms; b 
to be obſerved, that he always oppoſed his fon-in-law's afſumi 
crown of Bohemia; that had he kindled a war to re-inſtate 
that and his electorate, he probably would have ſtood ſingle 
fame, excepting the feeble and uncertain aſſiſtance he mig 
received from the elector's dependents and friends in German 
thing however is more certain than that James furniſhed the 
with large ſums of money to retrieve them, and that he a 
raiſed a regiment of 2,200 men, under Sir Horace Vere, wt 
ried them over to Germany, where the Germans, under the 
quis of Anſpach, refuſed to ſecond them againſt Spinola the $ 
general, and that the elector hurt his own cauſe by not givit 
brave count Mansfield the command of his troops inſtead « 
fpach. 

James has been greatly and juſtly blamed for his partiality 
vourites. His firſt was Robert Car, a private Scots gentlema 
was raifed to be firſt miniſter and earl of Somerſet. He marri 
counteſs of Eſſex, who had obtained a divorce from her hu 
and was with her found guilty of poiſoning Sir Thomas Ort 
in the Tower; but James, contrary as it is ſaid to a ſolemn « 
made, pardoned them both. His next favourite was Georg 
liers, a private Engliſh gentleman, who, upon Somerſet's di 
was admitted to an unuſual ſhare of favour and familiarity w 
ſovereign. James had at that time formed a ſyſtem of policy 
taching himſelf intimately to the court of Spain, that it mighll 
him in recovering the Palatinate ; and to this ſyſtem he had i 
ced the brave Sir Walter Raleigh, on a charge of * com 
hoſtilities againſt the Spaniſh ſettlements in the Weſt- Indies. 
having loſt his eldeſt ſon Henry, prince of Wales, who had 
vincible antipathy to a popiſh match, threw his eyes upon the Dy 
ta of Spain, as a proper wife for his ſon Charles, who had ful 
ed to that principality. Buckingham, who was equally a fas 
with the fon as with the father, fell in with the prince's ro 
humour, and againſt the king's will they travelled in diſgt 
Spain, where a moſt ſolemn farce of courtſhip was played; bl 
prince returned without his bride, and had it not been for the 
partiality in his favour, the earl of Briſtol, who was then a 
dor in Spain, would probably have brought Buckingham | 
block. 

James was all this while perpetually jarring with his parii4 
whom he could not perſuade to furniſh money equal to his dc 
and at laſt he agreed to his ſon's marrying the princels Het 
Maria, filter to Lewis XIII. and daughter to Henry the G T 
France. James died before the completion of this match, 21888." 
thought that had he lived, he would have diſcarded Buck" | 
His death happened in 1625, in the 59th year of his age, 
reign over England of 22 years. As to the progrels of the s 1 
learning under his reign, it has been already deſcrived. — 1 
eouraged and employed that excellent painter, Sir Peter r ; 


. * Alte Of bh; 
bens, as well as Inigo Jones, who reſtored the pure taite 


—_ AT FW #7 T3 ” ns. ih. 


FOES 


EOS. a awe. A. a =. 


EE  % i & + Dd 411 


i England, His was the golden reign ſor theological learn- 
and under him poetica genius, though not much encouraged 
a arrived at its vertical point. : ; 
dude I. was unfortunate in his marriage with the princeſs Hens» 
= Maria, He ſeems to have been but a cold lover, and he quar- 
with and ſent back her favourite attendants a few days after 
uri in England. On the other hand, the had a high ſpirit, 
und and diſliked every thing that was incompatible in govern» 
+ with her Italian and arbitrary education, and was a diſagree- 
eie, notwithſtanding her huſband's ſubmiſſion and tenderneſs, 
firit of the people had forced the late king into a breach with 
n 2nd Charles early gave ſuch indications of his partiality for 
tingham, and his own deſpotic temper, that the parliament was 
b in furniſhing him with money for carrying on the war. In 
rt time Buckingham perſuaded Charles to take the part of the 
x Hugonots, in their quarrel with that crown, They were ſo 
pporred, though Charles was fincere in ſerving them, that 
elle was reduced to extremity, by which the proteſtant inter- 
xezived an irrecoverable blow in France. The blame of all the 
ke miſcarriages and diſgraces was thrown by, the almoſt unani- 
vice both of the parliament and people upon the favourite; 
te ſheltered himſelf from their vengeance under the royal pro- 
hag till he was murdered by one Felton, a ſubaltern officer, as 
ws ready to embark for the relief of Rochelle, which ſoon after 
adered to cardinal Richheu. | 
lhe death of the duke of Buckingham, which happened in 1628, 
[not deter Charles from his arbitrary proceedings, which the 
Vi patriots in that enlightened age conſidered as ſo many acts 
many, He, without authority of parliament, laid arbitrary 
lions upon trade, which were refuſed to be paid by many of 
derchants aud members of the houſe of commons. Some of 
are impriſoned, and the judges were checked for admitting 
0 bail. The houſe of commons reſented thoſe proceedings by 
ug up a protelt, and denying admittance to the gentleman- 
* 0! the black rod, who came to adjourn them, till it was finiſh- 
This ſerved only to widen the breach, and the king diſſolved 
xliamext, after which he exhibiced informations againſt nine 
& molt eminent members, among whom was the great Mr 
an. They objected to the juriſdiction of the court, but their 
E over: ruled, and they were ſent to priſon during the king's 
bery thiag now operated towards the deſtruction of Charles. 
© mmons had voted him no money even for the maintenance of 
euchold, and preſuming on what had been practiſed in reigns 
* principles of liberty were imperfe&ly, or not at all under- 
ale levied money upon monopolies of ſalt, ſoap, and ſuch ne- 
"5% and other obſolete claims, particularly for knighthood. 
Verament becoming every day more and more unpopular, 
% Civine, Prynne, a Lawyer, and Boſtwick, a phyſician, 
* *m men of mean parts, but deſperately reſolute and fiery, 
hp trumpet of {edition, and their puniſhments were ſo ſe- 
dat they increaſed the unpopularity of the government. Un- 
122 ſortunately 


r 


r rr 


Fu © Tear uw 
fortunately for Charles, he put his conſeienes into the hands; 
archbiſhop of Canterbury, who was as great a bigot as himſel 
in church and ſtate. Laud adviſed him to perſecute the pt 
and to introduce the religion of the church of England int 
land. The Scots upon this formed ſecret connections with 
contented Engliſh, and invaded England, where Charles ws 
ſerved by his officers and his army, that he was forced t 
to an inglorious peace with the Scots; but neither party bei 
cere in obſerving the terms, and Charles diſcovering that {i 
their great men had offered to throw themſelves under the 
tion of the French king, he raiſed a freſh army by virtue of iſ 
rogative. All his preparations, however, were baffled by the 
who made themſelves maſters of Newcaſtle and Durham, and 
now openly befriended by the houſe of commons, they oblig 
king to comply with their demands, 
harles did this with fo bad a grace, though he took a jou 
Scotland for that purpoſe, that it did him no ſervice; on th 
trary, it encouraged the commons to riſe in their demand 
had made Wentworth earl of Strafford, a man of great abjliti 
fident of the council of the North, and lord lieutenant of 1 
and he was generally believed to be the firſt miniſter of ſtate. 
ford had been at the head of the oppoſition, and by chang 
party, he became ſo much the object of public deteſtation, th 
forced Charles in an illegal and imperious manner to conſent 
cutting off his head ; and Laud loſt his ſoon after in like mat 
Charles, upon various occaſions, ſaw the neceſſity of mod 
and fought to recover the affections of his people, firſt by pull 
petition of right, and afterwards agreeing to other popular de 
made by the commons. 'Theſe compliances did him no ſervit 


r 


rebellion broke out in Ireland, where the proteſtants were t 
by the papiſts, and great pains were taken to perſuade WE Al 
that Charles ſecretly favoured them out of hatred to his EngH * 


Jets. The biſhops were expelled the houſe of peers, and the 
of the Engliſh houſe of commons till kept up a correſpondent 
the diſcontented Scots. Charles was ill enough adviſed to 
perſon to the houſe of commons, and demanded' that lord 
ton, Mr Pym, Mr Hampden, Mr Hollis, Sir Arthur 
and Mr Stroud, thonld be apprehended, but they previou 
made their eſcape. This act of Charles was reſented as high 
again? his people, and the commons rejected all the offers 0 
faction he could make them. The city of London took the 
and the accuſed members into its protection. The train-band 
raiſed, and the mobs were ſo unruly, that Charles remov ge, u 
Whitehall to Hampton- court, and from thence into York{hirey 
he raiſed an army to face that which the parliament, or ra 
Houſe of commons, had raiſed in and about London. . 
That the nation in general did not think their liberties in 
or that the king was a tyrant, appears from the alacrity and 
bers with which he was ſerved, and which was compoſed 6 
tourths of the landed property of England. The parliament 
ever, took upon themſelves the executive power, and were 14 


by many of the trading towns and corporations, but its 8 


e 


o * 
2 


E 413 


Ly in London. The king's general was the earl of Lindſey, 
leave, but not an enterpriſing eommander, but he had great de - 
ner on his nephews che princes Rupert and Maurice, ſons to 
gor palatine, by his ſiſter, the princeſs Eliſabeth. In the be- 
wing of the war the ſenſe of honour Which prevailed among the 
V officers was too ſtrong for the principles on which the parlia- 
i forces fought, but a ſpirit of enthuſiaſm catching the latter, it 
me too powerful for honour, The earl of Eſſex was made ge» 
under the parliament, and the firſt battle was fought at Edge- 
n Warwickſhire, in October 1642; but both parties claimed 

& ridory, though the advantage lay with Charles, for the parlia- 
«x25 {0 much diſtreſſed, that they invited the Scots to come to 
eabtance, and they accordingly invaded England anew, with 
bat 20,000 horſe and foot, Charles attempted to remove the par- 
dent to Oxford, where many members of both houſes met; but 
enemies continued ſtill fitting at Weſtminſter, where they proſe · 
{ their animoſities againſt the royaliſts with great fury. The 
bpendent party, which had ſcarcely before been thought of, be- 
now to unmaſk themſelves and to figure at Weſtminlter. They 
ally hated the Preſbyterians, who till then had conducted the re- 
ſen, as they did the royaliſts z and ſuch was their management, 
ler the direction of the famous Oliver Cromwell, that a plan was 
ſed, for diſmiſſing the earls of Eſſex, and Mancheſter, and the 
ud of the Preſbyterians, from the parliament's ſervice, and for 
(ducing Fairfax, who was an excellent officer, but more ma- 
able, though a Preſbyterian, and ſome independent officers. In 
mean while, the war went on with unremitting fury on both 


Two battles were _ at Newbury, in which the ad- 


age inclined to the king. He had likewiſe many other ſucceſſes, 
having defeated Sir William Waller, he purſued the ear! of Eſ- 
uno remained ſtill in command, into Cornwall, from whence 
n oblized to eſcape by ſea, but his infantry ſurrendered them- 
es pritoners to the royaliſts, though his cavalry delivered them- 

dy their valour, 
the firſt fatal blow the king's army received, was at Marſton- 
ir, where, through the imprudence of prince Rupert, the earl of 
cheſter deſeated the royal army, of which 4000 were killed, 
1500 taken priſoners. This victory was owing chiefly to the 
de and conduct of Cromwell, and though it might have been 
ed by the ſucceſſes of Charles in the Weſt, yet his whole con- 
na [ring of miſtakes, till at laſt, his affairs became irretrie- 
. It is true, many treaties of peace, particularly one at Ux- 
e, were ſet on foot during the war, and the heads of the Preſ- 
party would have agreed to terms, that would have bound- 
de Ling's prerogative. They were outwitted, betrayed, and o- 
. by the independents, who were aſſiſted by the ſtiffneſs, and 
v behaviour of Charles himſelf. In thort, the independeats 
£ ueceeded, in perſuading the members at Weſtminſter, that 
3 was not to be truſted, whatever his conceſſions might be. 
A 5 moment the affairs of the royaliſts ruſhed into ruin. Sir 
hy Arfax, + hole father, lord Fairfax, remained in the North, 
ie head of the army, which was now new. modelled, ſo that 
Charles 


— 


414 ENA NM £5 Wm 


Charles by piecemeal loſt all his towns and forts, and was 

by Fairfax-and Cromwell, at the deciſive battle of Naſeby, | 
parly as uſual to the miſcondu of prince Rupert, This 
followed by freſh misfortunes to Charles, who retired to Oxfor 
only place where he thougat he could be ſafe. 

The Seots were then beſieging Newark, and no good unde 
ing ſubſiſted between them and the Engliſh parliamentariar 
the beſt and moſt royal friends Charles had, thought ir prud 
make their peace. In this melancholy fituation of his affairs, he 
ped in diſguiſe from Oxford to the Scots army before Newark 
a promiſe of protection. The Scots, however, were fo intim 
by the reſolutions of the parliament at Weſtminſter, that tl 
the perſon of Charles into the hands of the parliament's commi 
ers, not ſuſpecting the fatal conſequences. 

The Preſbyterians now ſaw, more than ever, the necellity e 
King peace with the king, but they were no longer maſters, 
forced to receive laws from the army, and the independents, 
latter now avoved their intentions. The firſt by ſorce took C 
out of the hands of the commiſſioners in June 1647, and then 
ing that a treaty might {till take place with the king, they imp 
ed 41 of the Preſbyterian members, voted the houſe of peers 
uſeleſs, and that of the commons was reduced to 150 independ 
and moſt of them officers of the army. In the mean while Cl 
who unhappily promiſed himſelf relief from thoſe diſſention 
carried from priſon to priſon, and ſometimes cajoled by the 
pendents, with hopes of dehverance, but always narrowly wat 
Several treaties were ſet on foot, but all miſcarried, and 


been imprudent enough, after his effecting an eſcape, to put bi 


into colonel Hammond's hands, the parliament's governor « 


iſle of Wight. A freſh negociation was begun and almoſt ho 


when the independents, dreading the general diſpoſition of the 
ple for peace, once more ſeized upon the king's perſon, bet 
him a priſoner to London, carried. him before a mock-court « 
tice, of their own erecting, and after a ſham trial, his head u 
of, before his own palace at Whitehall, on the zoth of Jan 
1648-9, being the 49th year of his age, and the 24th of his r 
Charles is allowed to have had many virtues, and there is 
to believe, that affliction had taught him fo much wiſdom and 
deration, that had he been reſtored to his throne, he would 
become a moſt excellent prince. This undoubtedly was the fet 
his people, at the time of his murder, as it was univerſally det 
by all but the parricides, who brought him to the block, and 
heated by enthuſiaſm. Many, in the courſe of the rebellion, 
had been his great opponents in parliament, became ſincere con 
to his cauſe, in which they loſt their lives and fortunes, and. 
did any prince die more generally lamented, than he did by dis 
ple. We cannot reflect upon the great loſs of lives, to the a 
at leaſt of 100, oo fighting men, during the ſix years the 
war, without being inclined to think that England was more! 
Jous then, than it is now. Though the hiſtory of that os 
been minutely related, by writers of all parties, who , 
beſt opportunities to know the true ſtate of the nation, Jet 


TALEESS ET EAE SS CAS 


k 


2 
\ 


E W G L AN . 415 
0 that the loſs of men had any influence upon agriculture or 
or the exerciſe of the common arts of life, and provi- 
"ther ſank than roſe in their value. The ſurviving children 


were Charles and James, who were ſucceflively kings of 


1 u Henry, duke of Glouceſter, who died ſoon after his bro- 
de 4 reltoration 5 the princeſs Mary, married to the prince of O- 
ian ind mother to William, prince of Orange, who was after- 
rud 1 king of England, and the princeſs Henrietta Maria, who 
, be warried to the duke of Orleans, and whoſe daughter was mar- 


= /itr Amadeus, duke of Savoy, and king o Sardinia. 
mi n who brought Charles to the block, were men of different 
ons and principles, but many. of them poſſeſſed moſt amazi 
nmi lies for government. They omitted no meaſure that could give 
il excluſion to kingly power in England, and it cannot be 


70 4 that after they erected themſelves into a commonwealth, 
rs, ad prodigious things, for retrieving the glory of England by 
ty, lber were joined by many of the Preſbyterians, and both fac- 
ud Cromwell and Ireton, though they were forced to em- 
en dem in the reduction of Ireland, and afterwards againſt the 
oper who had received Charles II. as their king. By cutting down 
ers timber upon the royal domains, they produced, as it were by. 
pend 6 all at once, a fleet fuperior to any that had ever been ſeen 
Ch lupe. Their general, Cromwell, invaded Scotland, and tho” 
on w there reduced to great difficulties, he totally defeated the 
the Gs at the battles of Dunbar and Worceſter. The ſame common- 
wat ſth paſſed an act of navigation, and declaring war againſt the 
do were thought till then invincible at fea, they eſfectual - 
ut | undled thoſe republicans in repeated engagements. 


jor 0 , V this time Cromwell, who hated the republic, had the addreſs 
x himſelf declared commander in chief of the Engliſh army. 


| the miral Blake, and the other Engliſh admirals, carried the terror 
b & Engliſh name by ſea, to all quarters of the globe; and Crom- 
rt e b avicg now but little employment, began to be afraid that his 
du 5 would be forgotten, for which reaten he went without any 
Jan mr, with a file of muſqueteers, diflolved the parliament, and 


is r rply drove all the members out of their houſe, He next 


* p ned the council of ſtate, with whom the executive power 

uy Wncred, and transſerred the adminiftration of government to a- 

— * perſons, whom he ſammoned to Whitehall on the 4th of 
153. 


newer with Holland, in which the Engliſh were again victori- 
l continued. Seven bloody engagements by ſea, were fought 
* me than the compaſs of one year, and in the laſt, which 
7 * in tzvour of England, the Dutch lalt their brave admi- 
3 Cromwell all this while wanted to be declared 
11 that he muſt encounter unſurmountable difſi 
he . 3 and his other ſriends, if he ſhould perſiſt in 
n 70" ds however, declared lord proteQor of the 
2 ot England, a title, under which he exerciſed all the 
| the er been formerly annexed to the regal dignity. He 
ed to new model the government, and various were the 

A vere propoſed, elablithed, and proved abortive. Thoſe 
ſchemes, 


— 


_—— 


> 5 — — 


— — —᷑ —— — — — —— —' — — ͤ-ꝛä— — 


| 
if 
' 
: 


F 


management of the army, by which he did every thing, 


took poſſeſſion of it. Finding that his ufurpation gave as mug 


T_T ES — — —— — — , — = 
* — , — 4 / —ͤ—ũ— — — — é ? 
—— —— — * —.— — a - 
5 — — a - - N n 
$ 4 4 4 9 
1 
. 
” 


ws. E N L 1 


ſchemes, however, were temporary, and ſuited to each jundi 
have we any high idea of Cromwell's political capacity, but 


openly or ſecretly thwarted by people of rty ali 
and however dazzled hiſtorians lm been with his — : 
and power, it appears, by the beſt evidences, that during th 
tinuance of his protectorate, he was perpetually diſtreſs'd for 
to keep the wheels of his government going. | 
- His wants at laſt led him iato the fatal error of taking pa 
France againit Spain, in hopes that the rich Spaniſh prizes 
ſapply him with ready money. He lent the French court Goo 
and Dunkirk being taken by their aſſiſtance from the Spaniari 


content to his own party, as terror to the royaliſts, he had the 
of renewing the model of the conſtitution, and actually eret 
houſe of lords out of his own creatures. No king ever adted, 
in England or Scotland, more deſpotically than he did, yet 
rant ever had fewer real friends, and even thoſe few threatet 
oppoſe him, if he ſhould take upon him the title of king. 
ans, in drawing a character of Cromwell, have been impoſed 
by his amazing ſucceſs, and dazzled by the luſtre of his fo 
but when we conſult Thurloe's, and other ſtate papers, the it 
tion in a great meaſure vaniſhes. After a moſt uncomfortable 
pation of four years, eight months, and thirteen days, he di 
rounded by enthuſiaſts, on the 3d of September, 1658, in th 
year of his age. =... 

It is not to be denied that England acquired much more 
from foreign powers, between the death of Charles I. andt 
Cromwell, than ſhe had been treated with fince the death of * 
beth. This was owing to the great men who formed the rep 
which Cromwell abolithed, and who as it were inſtantaneouſly 
forth the naval ſtrength of the kingdom. Neither they nor ONS 
well had formed any fixed plan of legiſlation, and his ſafety u 
ing to the different ſentiments of government, that prevailed "a 
the heads of the republic. In the year 1656, the charge of the 
lic amounted to 1,400,090], of which a million went to the f 
of the navy and army, and the remainder to that of the civil g 
ment. In the ſame year, Cromwell aboliſhed all tenures in boa 
by knight's ſervice, and ſoccage in chief, and likewile the col 
wards.and liveries. Several other grievances that had beet 
plained of, during the late reigns, were likewiſe removed. 
year the total charge, or public expence of England, amour 
2,326,989 J. The collections by aſſeſſments, excule, and 1 
paid into the exchequer, amounted to 2,362,000 l. 48. 

Upon the whole, it appears that England, from the year ny 
to the year 16538, was improved equally in riches as in power Air 
legal intereſt of money was reduced from 8 to 6 per cent. 400 
ſymptom of inercaſing commerce. The navigation act, that 
dium of the Englith trade, was planned and eſtabliſhed, one of 
terwards confirmed under Charles II. Monopolies of all nd 
abolithed, and liberty of conſcience to all fects was gram ud it 
vait advantage of population and manufactures; whica 


5" MW TE © * EOF WOW 


* 
/ 


C1 © YL. + 26>” 417 
uu Laod's intolerant ſchemes having driven numbers of han. 
to America, and foreign countries. To the above national 
ns, we may add the modeſty and frugality introduced a- 
he common people, and the citizens in particular, by which 
Le enabled to increaſe their capitals. It a s, howeyers 
Wave, dad he lived, and been firmly ſettled in the govern- 
would have broken through the ſober maxims of the republi- 
or, ſome time before his death, he affected great magnifi- 

a his perſon, court, and attendants, We know of no art, or 
tht was patronized by the uſurper, 4nd yet he had the 
ume to meet in the perſon” of Cooper, an excellent miniature 
ud his coins done by Simons, exceed in beauty and work- 
wy of that age. He is likewiſe faid to have paid ſome re · 
v men of learning, and particularly to thoſe entruſted with 
pr of youth of the univerſities, * | 53 
ine of Richard Cromwell, who ſucceeded his father Oliver, as 
i, ſufficiently proves the little forecaſt, which the latter had in 
pol government, and his being almoſt totally unbefriended. 
was placed in his dignity by thoſe who wanted to make him 
Mal their own government, and he was ſoon after driyen 
the leaſt ſtruggle or oppoſition into contempt and obfeurity. 
Inn for hiſtorians of any party to aſcribe the reſtoration of 
61], (who with his mother and brothers, during the uſurpa- 
ld lived abroad on a very precarious ſubſiſtance) to the me- 
wy particular perſons. It was effected by the general eon - 
* of the people, who found by experience, that neither peace 
don were to be obtained, but by reſtoring the ancient 
Won of monarchy, General Monk, a man of military abili- 
it of no principles, excepting ſuch, as ſerved his ambition or 
lud the ſagacity to obſerve this, and after temporizing in 
apes, being at the head of the army, he made the princi- 
ſ in reſtoring Charles II. For this he was created duke of 
krie, confirmed in the command of the army, and loaded 
ours and riches, a bes. | * 
II. being reſtored in 1660, in the firſt year of his reign, 
v de under no influence, but that of his people's happineſs, 
confirming the abolition of all the feudal tenures, he re- 
tom the parliament a gift of the exciſe for lite, and in this 
We and tea are firſt mentioned, By his Tong reſidence, and 
Ws friends abroad, he imported into England, the culture of 
ant vegetables, ſuch as that of aſparagus, artichokes, 
5, and ſeveral kinds of beans, peas, and fallads, Under 
mica, which had been conquered, but neglected, by the 

Guring the late uſurpation, was improved and made a ſu- 
a7. The Royal Society was —_ and many popular 
ng trade and colonization were paſſed. In ſhort, Charles 
ad cultivated the true intereſts of his kingdom, till he was 
i pleaſure, and ſunk in indolence, failings that had the 
equerces as deſpotiſm itſelf, He took a paternal concern 
Arne of the citizens, when London was burnt down in 
» is being rebuilt with greater luſtre and conveniences, is 
be increaſe of her trade ; but there was no bound of 
3 G Charies's 


1 r 


* 


„ — FF 3 © Wm 
expences. He has been ſeverely, but RE TIN a | 
felling. Dunkirk to the French king. to ſuppl3 his .necelis 
he bad (quandered the im mend, Jug, granted hits by po 
The price was about 25,0004. Rerliog.” In this be i a 
Theſe are ſuppoſed to have brought on a-war with the Du 
their behaviour and ingratitude to England, merited the WN| 
chaſtiſement. 5 0 SP 1 


Tue fit ſymptoms of hig degeneracy. 4s a king; pe 
iving way to the popular clamour again the tord Na 
of che wiſelt and moſt difintereſted Gatelmen, that | ever 
could boaſt of, and ſacrificing: him to the ſyzaphants of his 
rable hours. The firſt Dutch war, which begun in 1665, u 
ried on, with great reſolution and ſpirit, under the ; 
but through Charles's miſapplication-of the public money, wh 
been —— * war, the Dutch, while a — at 
depending at Breda, found means to inſult the rayal navy ü 
land, by failing up the Medway, as far as Chatham, and del 
ſeveral capital ſhips of war, Soon after this a peace was cat 
at Breda, between Great Britain; and the. States General, 
preſervation of the Spaniſh Netherlands, and Sweden having 
ded to the treaty, it was called the triple alliance... 

If we look into the hiſtory of, thoſe timeg, we ſhall Find 
humbling the power of France, was; the rul on of al 
the reſt of Europe; but at the ſame time.every ſtate. at ehr 
her, had particular views of, its own,. which defeated every 

confederacy againſt the Freneh 2 5 he ſituation of ON 
in this reſpect, was delicate. The inſults and rivalſhup of the WW 
were intolerable to the trading part of his people, but his pz 
thought that all confiderations ought to give way to the hat 
of the Freach king. Caarles ng yo oppoſition from hi 


4 


. 


* Too: T3 oo ROM YI. 3. Y- 


ment, and ſuch difficuſties in raiſing, qzoney, that be was pee 
by his French miſtreſs the dutchels of Portſmouth, to thro 
ſelf into the arms of the French king, who promiſed to tua 
with money, ſufficient to enable him to rule without a par 
This has always been a capital, charge agaivit Charles I 
had, I am apt to think, too . a, weight with his pa 
whoſe conduct, in ſome particulars, is bot to be vigdicated, Bl 

In 1671, Charics was ſo ill ug as to ſeize upon tne 
of the bankers, which had been lent him at $1 per cent. an 
up the Exchequer. This Nas an iadefenſible ſtep, and Cha 
rended to juſtify it by the neceiſity of his affairw being thel 
eve of a freſh war with Holland. This was declared n 16 
had almoſt proved fatal to that republic. In this War the 
fleet, and army, acted in coojun ion with thaſe of Franck 
duke of York commanded the Engliſh fleet, and diſplayed 8 
lantry in that Ration. The duke of Monmouth, the eldel 
vourite natural ſon of Charles, commanded 6000 Login 
who joined the French in the Low Countries, and all Holl 
have fallen into the hands of the French, had it not been 


KN G4 Ly AT N DN 419 
their monarch, Lewis XIV. who was in a hurry to enjoy 
Limph in bis capital, and ſome very unforeſeen circumſtanęes. 
10 was now loſt; between Charles and his parliament, 
ahanding the glory which the Engliſh fleet obtained by fea 
«4 the Dutch. The popular elamour at laſt obliged Charles to 
to that republic, in eonſideration of 200,000 l. which was 
i; but in ſore things Charles acted very deſpotically. He 

med of the freedom taken with his prerogative in coffee - 
aud ordered them to be ſhut up, but in a ſew days after to 
His parliament addreſſed. him, but in vain, to make 
wh France, in the year 1677, for he was entirely devoted to 
mn, and regularly received its money as a penſioner. It is 
uyrerer to be denied, that the trade of England was now in- 
W increaſed, and Charles entered into many vigorous meaſures 


- 
N 
— \ \ 
_ ; 


| protection and ſupport. 1G 241 | 
eus no merit in the eyes of his parliament, which grew 
hy more and mote furious, and untractable, againſt the 
hand the Papiſts ; at the head of whom was the king's eldeſt 
bk, and preſumptive heir of the crown, the duke of York, 
notwithlariding the oppoſition he met with in parliament, 
nt be had the affections ot his people, but was too indolent 
tadvantage' of that circumſtance. He dreaded the proſpect of 
vir, and offered any coneeſſions to avoid it. The conduct 
parliament on this occaſion is indefenſible Many of the mem- 
we bent upon ſuch a revolution as afterwards took place, and 
keretly determined, that the duke of York never ſhould reign. 
„the famous Titus Oates, and ſome other miſcreants, for- 
t, charging the Papiſts-with a deſiga to murder the king, 
hintrodnee popery by meuns of Jeſuits in England, and from 
e Thouga nothing could be more ridiculous, and more 
diftory, than the whole of this forgery, yet it was ſup- 
Why even a frantic zeal; on the part of the parliament. The 
und innocent lord Strafford, Coleman, ſecretary to the duke 
b wich many Jeſuits, and other papiſts, were publicly exe- 
n perjured evidences, The queen herſelf eſeaped with diffi - 
| the duke of York was obliged to retire into foreign parts, 
Warles, though convinced that the whole was an infamous im- 
yelded to the torrent. At laſt it ſpent its force. The earl 
Webury, who was at the head of the oppoſition, pulhed on 
Wl exclufion of the duke of Vork from the throne. He was 
by the ill adviſed duke of Monmouth, and the bill, after 
the commons, miſcarried in the houſe of peers. All Eng- 
W again in a flame, but the king, by a well-timed adjourn- 
tie parliament to Oxford, recovered the affections of his 
Fon almok incredible degree. 

nc” © of Vork, and his party, made a fcandalous uſe of their 
3 They trumped up on their ſide a plot of the proteſtants 
ag or ſeizing the king, and altering the government. This 
3% falſe as that which had been forged againſt the Papiits. 
aclent lord Ruſſel, who had been remarkable in his oppoſi- 
Mie Popith ſucceſſion, Algernon Sidney, and ſeveral diſtin- 
Mtants, were tried, condemned and ſuffered death, and 


3G 2 the 


WTR. TT WT Ae TT 


r 


. — 


420 E NY OG Li M NWD 


the king ſet his foot- on the neek of ſition. Even th 
121 intimidated into the wha. 6 of ape tay — 
moſt all the corporations in the kingdom. The duke of Mong 
and the earl of Shafteſbury, were obliged to fly, and the 
York returned in triumph to Whitehall. It was thought, -ho 
that Charles intended to have recalled the duke of Monmontl 
to have executed ſome meaſures. for the future quiet of his 
when he died in February, 1684-5, in the g5th year of his a; 
25th of his reign. He had married Catharine, infanta of Po 
by whom he received a large fortune in ready money, belig 
town and fortreſs of Tangier in Africa, but be left behind 4 
lawful iſſue. The deſcendents of his natural ſons and daun 
are now among the moſt diſtinguiſhed; of the Britiſh nobility. 
In recounting the prineipal events of this reign, I have bet 
ficiently explicit as to the principles, both of the king and the 
ſition to his government. The heads of the latter were Pre 
ans, and had been greatly inſtrumental in the civil war agait 
late king, and the uſurpations that followed, They had been 
and preferred by Charles, in hopes of their being uſeful in b 
their party into his meaſures, and he would probably have ſuc 
had not the remains of the old royaliſts, and the diſſipated pa 
court, fallen in with the king's foible for-pleaſure. The Preſbzt 
however, availed themſelves of their credit, in the early part 
reign, when the fervour of loyalty was abated, to bring into 
ment ſuch a number of their friends, as rendered the reign of Q 
very uneaſy, and it was owing, perhaps, to them, that civil 
and proteſtantiſm, now exiſt in the. Engliſh government. ol 
other hand, they ſeemed to have carried their jealouſy of a 
ſucceſſor too far, and the people, without doors, certainly th 
that the parliament ought. to have been ſatisfied with the 
ſtraints and diſabilities, which Charles offered to impoſe- up 
ſucceſſor. This gave ſuch a turn to the affections of the pe 
left Charles, and his brother, at the time of his death, mai 
the laws and liberties of England. . 
The reign of Charles has been celebrated for wit and gal 
but both were coarſe and indelicate. The court was the n 
vice, and the ſtages exhibited ſcenes of impurity. Some re 
However, were found, who could admire Milton, as well a 
den, and never perhaps were the pulpits of England ſo well lt 
with preachers, as in this reign. Our language was harmd 
refined, and rendered natural, witneſs the tile of their ſe 
and the days ef Charles may be called the Auguſtan age of 
matics, and natural philoſophy. Charles loved, patronuzee 
underſtood the arts, more than he encouraged, or rewarded 
eſpecially thoſe of Engliſh growth, but this neglect proceeey 
from narrow-mindedaeſs but indolence, and want of reflec 
the memory of Charles II. has been traduced ſor being the f 
glith prince, who formed a body of ſtanding forces as guard 
perſon, it ought to be remembered, at the fame ume, that 
ried the art of ſhip-building to the higheſt perfection: and 6 
royal navy of England, at this day, owes its fineſt impro? 


| « 
E NN G Li A N D. 42¹ 
ni bis brothers complete knowledge. of naval affairs and ar- 
Ws eldeon which, during» the late reign, had ſhaken the 
Ye pee have vaniſhed; at the acceſſion of James II. The 
Aection towards him was increaſed; by the early. declaration 
in favour of the church of England, which, during the 
ri had formally pronounced all refiſtance to the reigning 
v be unlawful. This doctrine proved fatal to James, and al- 


Juned proteſtantiſm. The army and people ſupported him, in 
n ill- formed and indeed wicked rebellion of the duke of 


es deſperately reſolved to try how far che church of Eng- 
wild agree with her doctrine of non- reſiſtance. The experi- 
failed him, He made the moſt provoking Reps to render po · 
the ellabliſned religion of his dominions. He pretended to a 
ol diſpenſing with the known laws ; he inſtituted an illegal 
faliical court, he openly- received and admitted into his privy 
jl, the pope's emiſſaries, and gave them more reſpe& than was 
pthe miniſters of a ſovereign prince. The encroachments he 
won both the civil and religious liberties of his people, are 
| beyond deſcription, and were diſapproved of by the pope 
if, and all ſober Roman catholics. His ſending to priſon, and 
ting for a libel, ſeven biſhops, for preſenting a petition againſt 
bis declaration, and their acquittal upon a legal trial, alarm-- 
| belt proteſtant friends. | 

this extremity, many great men in England and Scotland, 
they withed well to James, applied for relief to William, 


enemy of Lewis XIV. who then threatened Europe with 
The prince of Orange was the nephew and ſon-in-law of 
„ having married the princeſs Mary, that king's eldeſt daugh- 
md he embarked with a fleet of 500 fail for England, on pre- 
reſtoring church and ate to their own due rights. Upon 
alin England, he was joined not only by the Whigs, but 
[whom James had conſidered as his beſt friends; and even his 
ſter the princeſs Anne, and her huſband, George, prince of 
rk, left him and joined the prince of Orange, who ſoon diſ- 
Rd that he expected the crown. James might ſtill have reign- 
u he was ſurrounded with French emiſlaries, and ignorant 
. who wiſhed him not to reign rather than not to reſtore po- 
| They ſecretly perſuaded him to ſend his queen and ſon, the 
wender, then but ſix months old, to France, and to tollow 
n perſon, which he did; and thus in 1688, ended his reign 
and, which event in Engliſh hiſtory is termed the Revolution. 

bort reign affords little matter for the national progreſs in 
® lerelts, James is allowed, on all hands, to have under- 
lem, and that had it not been for his bigotry, he would 
1 2 moſt excellent king of England. The writings of the 
deines againſt popery, in this reign, are eſteemed to be the 
Aalen! pieces of controverſy that ever were publiſhed on that 


Had 


% 


tb, who pretended to be the lawful ſon of Charles II. and, 
d had aſſumed the title of king. That duke's head being cut 


pol Orange, in Holland, a prince of great abilities, and the 


i 


_ reigns, and he gave his eonſent to the bill-of rights, which cont 


_ creaſed by the king's predilection for the Datetii The s 


 bates.”« Le is well known that king Williain's chief ovjee 
— kumble' the power of France, and his reign was ſpent in an 


— 4 
7 


112 E W O 1 M M n 


- Hadcit not been for the baleſul inſlurper of the Jeſu ita o 
the prince of Orange might have found bis views — 
fruſtrated. The conduct of Jaches ve bim advantages B 
not have hoped for. Few were in 9 ayers ty, and 
convention of the ſtates. was called, it was plaim that had ner 
abdicated his throne, it would not have been filled by the 
and princeſt of Orange. Even that was not done wichdut lo 


uninterrupted courſe of hoſtilities with that pomerg which u 
potted: by England, at an expence ſhe had never kyown' before 
nation had grown cautious; through the experience of thi te 


all the people .could claim, for the preſervation of their tit 
The two laſt kings had — bad uſe uf the whole nid 
revenue, which was put into their hindsy/ ant! Which was i 
be ſufficient to raiſe and maintain a ſtanding army. The pe 
was therefore divided, part was allotted for the current n 
ſervice of the year, and was to he accounted ſur to parliamen 
part, which is ſtill called the civil liſt money, was given to ti 
for the ſupport of his houſe and digni tx. 

It was the juſt ſenſe rhe people had of their civil and ret 
rights alone, that could provoke the people of England to a 
the late revolution, for they never in other reſpects had bern 
a piteh of wealth und proſperity, as in the year 1688. The 
of their merchant ſhips, as appears from Dr Davenant; wat 
year, near double to what it had been in 2666; andthe” ton 
the royal navy. which in 1660, was onty 629% ons, was 
increaſed to 101,032 tons. The increaſe of the cuſtoms, 
annual rental of England, was in the ſame proportion. 
therefore no wonder, if a ſtrong party, both in the parliame 
nation, was formed againſt the government, Which was pu 


France, which, on the king's part, was für from bang fuck 
required an enormous expence, and the Iriſh-\continged" in 
faithful to king James. Many "Engliſh who wiſhed'wdll'tot 
art family, dreaded their being reſtored by conqueſt, and t 
liament enabled the king to reduce” Ireland, and to gain th 
of the Boyn againſt James, who there loſt alf the militär) 
he had acquired before. The marine of France, however, 
fuperior to that of England in the beginning of the war 3 bu 
year 4692, that of France received an irrecoverable blow iu 
feat at La Hogue, which the French feel to this day. 


Invaſions were threatened, and conſpiracies diſcovered eve g. 
agaiaſt the government, and the fupply of the continental ad for 
ced the parliament to open new reſources for money. 41 k Gel 
was impoſed, and every ſubject's lands were raxed, according Ito th 
valuations given in by the ſeveral counties: Tboſe whe "Tp 
moſt loyal were the heavielt taxed, and this prepoſterous? Wien 
ſtill continues; but the greateſt and beldeſt operation in! be F 
that ever took place, was eſtabliſhed in this reign/ which by ad th 
rying on the war by borrowing money upon parſtamentary *y wy 


E N G LAN . 473 
lern what are no called the public funds: Phe chief projector 
bbewe, is ſaid to have been Charles Montague afterwards 

alan. His chief argument ſor ſuch a (project wa, that it 

ee the monied part of the nation to befriend the revolu · 
well, becauſe after lending their money, they could have no 
„ being. repaid, but by ſupporting that intereſt, and chat 
ooght of taxes would oblige the commercial people to be more 

ns How well thoſe views have been anſwered, is need- 
in obſerve, as I have already mentioned the preſent ate of pub- 


. notwithſtanding the vaſt ſervice he had done to the na- 
ad the public benefits which took place under his auſpices, 
larly in the eſtabliſhment of the bank of England, and the 
ping the filver money, met with ſo many mortifications from 
wizment, that he actually reſolved upon an abdication and 
wa up a ſpeech for that f orpoſe, which he was prevailed up · 
phipprels. He long bore the affronts he met with, in hopes 
op fopported in his war with -Fravce, but at laſt in 1697, be 
lced to conclude the peace of Ryſwick with the French king, 
cow ledged his title to the crown of England. By this time 
ſka had loſt his queen, but the government was continued in 
fon. After peace was reſtored; the commons obliged him to 
A his army, all but an inconſiderable number, and to diſtniſa 
nourite Dutch guards. Towards the end of his — his 
of ering the whole Spaniſh monarchy in poſſeſſion of France 
rü eh of the catholic king, Charles II. which was every day 
kd, led him into a very impolitie meaſure, which was the par- 
traty with France, by which that monarchy' was to be divi- 
Even the houſe of Bourbon and Auſtria- This treaty' was 
| felented by the parliament, and ſome of bis miniſtry were im- 
Ty 8 for adviſing it. It is thought that William ſaw his error 
£ vx too late. His miniſters were acquitted from their im- 
ent, and the death of king James diſcovered the infincerity 
reach court, which immediately proclaimed his fon king of 


ny britain, a 

e rendered William again popular in England. The 

" mics palied the bill of abjurdtion, and an addreſs for a war 
race. The laſt and moſt glorious. act of William's reign, 

" V pling the bill for ſettling the ſueceſſion to the crown in the 


# Eanover, on the twelfth of June 1701. His death was 
6 by a tall he had from his horſe, foon after he had renew- 
pad alliance againſt France, on the eighth of March, 1702, 
hear ol his age, and the 14th of his reign in England. This 
"s not made by nature for popularity, His manners were 
W rbidding. His notions of national government inclined 


| 
— i ceſpotiſin and it was obſerved, that though he owed his 
hs N Whigs, yet he favoured the Tories, as often as he 
th ſafety. The reſcue and preſervation of the Prote- 


bon ad public liberty were the chief glories of William's 
land under him ſuffered ſeverely both by fea and 
W the public debt, at the time of bis death, amounted to 

untard of ſum of 14,000,0001. I have nothing to add af- 
der 


\ 


18th. century. 
father 


dging the title of her brother, who has fince been well 
by the name of the Pretender, left her no choice; and the re 
to fulfill all William's engagements with bis 'allies; and to + 
the earl of Marlborough, who had been impriſoned in the late 
on a fuſpicion of. Jacobitiſm; and whoſe wife was her favouri 
her general. She could not have made a better choice of 44 
and a ſtateſman, for that earl excelled in both. No footer 
placed at the head of the Engliſh army abroad, than his gent 
activity gave a new turn to the war, and he became as much 
vourite of the Dutch as his wife wes of the queen 
Charles II. of Spain, OA of the intrigues of F 
and at the ſame time _— the Partition treaty, in whi 
conſent had not been aſked; his whole dominions by will! 
lip, duke of Anjou, grandſon of Lewis XIV. and Philip was | 
diately proclaimed king of Spain, Which laid the foundation 
family alliance, that till ſubſiſts, between France and that f 
Philip's ſucceſſion was however diſputed by the ſecond fon 
emperor of Germany, who took upon himſelf the title of Chark 
and his cauſe was favoured by the empire, England, Holland 
other powers who joined in a confederacy againſt the houſe of 
bon, now become more dangerous than ever by the acquulit 
the whole Spaniſh dominions. an 
The capital meaſure of continuing the war agaiuſt France 
fixed, the queen found no great difficulty in —_ mi 
who were for the moſt part tories, and the earl of Iphir 
(though afterwards a leading whig) was thought all his bfet 
a predilection for the late king James and his queen, was pl 
the head of the treaſury, His fon had married the earl of M 
rough's eldeſt daughter, and the earl could truſt no other wt 
important department. | : "455, 
I ſhall hereafter have occaſion to mention dhe glorious 
obtained by the earl, who was ſoon made duke of Marive 
Thoſe of Blenheim and Ramilies gave the firſt effeQtual cd 
the French power. By that of Blenheim, the empervy of Ge 
was ſaved from immediate deſtruction. Though prince Eu 
that day joined in command with the duke, yet the glory oft 
was confeſſedly owing to the latter. The French general 
was taken priſoner, and ſent to England;; and 20.000 Frend 
Bavarians were killed, wounded, or drowned in the Dao 
ſides about 143,000 who were taken, and a proportionable nut 
cannon, artillery, and trop hies of war. About the ſametime, the 
admiral, Sir George Rook, reduced Giberalter, which ſtill ren 
our poſſeſſion. The battle of Ramilies was ſought and game 
the duke of Marlborough alone. The loſs of the enemy © 
been varioufly reported; it is generally ſuppoſed to have bt 


* 


E N CG . R N D. | 425 
* hemded, and 6000 taken priſoners j but the conſequences 


| its importance. 1 b | 
ce battle of Ramilies the ſtates of Flanders aſſembled at 


ud recognized Charles for their ſovereign, while the con- 
es took poſſeſlion of Louvian, Bruſſels, Mechtin, Ghent, Ou- 
, Broges, and Antwerp; and ſeveral other ' conſiderable 
n Flanders and Brabant, and acknowledged the title of king 
The next great battle gained over the French, was #t 
where they loſt 3000 on the field, and about 7000 were 
iſoners ; and the year after, September 11, 1709, the allies 
Ide French lines at Malplaquet, near Mons, with the lofs of 
1,000 men. Thus far I have reconnted the flattering ſue- 
tb Engliſh, but they were attended with many potions of 
palior. — 
| had ſent a very fine army to aſſiſt Charles III. in 
peder the command of lord Galway; but in 1909, after he 
ben joined by the Portugueſe, the Engliſh were defeated in the 
of Almanza, chiefly through the cowardice of their allies. 
a ſome advantages were obrained at fea, yet that war in ge- 
carried on to the detriment if not the diſgrace of England. 
x George of Denmark, huſband to the queen, was then lord 
Kairal, but he had truſted the affairs of that board to under- 
wo were either corrupted or ignorant, and complaints com- 
every quarter, with regard to that department, the houſe 
ons were put in very bad humour, nor did things feem to 
d better managed after the prince's death. The immenſe 
ned for the current ſervice of the year being ſeverely felt. 
differently acconnted for, it appeared that England had 
le chief burden of the war; that neither the Auſtrians, Ger- 
wr Dutch, had furniſhed their ſtipulated quotas, and that 
ted to the Engliſh parliament for making them good. A 
klgn, which had been planned at the court, and was to have 
armed by the aſſiſtance of the fleet of England, for taking 
t a vait expence, miſcarried through the ſelfiſhneſs of the 
Vienna, whoſe clfief object of attention was their own war 
* At the ſame time England felt ſeverely the fcarcity of 
gcarrying on her trade and manufactures, and the French 
le hanghty Lewis XIV. now profeſſed his readiacts to agree 
«any terms the Engliſh ſhould preſeribe. 
kind many other internal diſputes about the prerogative, 
Wn, religion, and other public matters, had created great 
n the nation and parlament. The queen ſtuck cloſe to 
® Marlborough and his friends, who finding that the to- 
Wed to treat with France, put themſelves at the head of the 
wo were ior continuing the war, from which the duke and 
ents received immenſe emoluments: The failures of the 
Sad Dutch could not however be longer difſembled, and 
Ma intereſt of the dutcheſs of Marlborough with the qucen 
Oe haken by her ewn inſolence. NA 
es at Jait were forced to give way to a treaty, and the 
= ver held at Gertruydenburg. They were managed on 
"4 Ligland by the duke of Marlborough and the lord 
3 H Townſend, 


Townſend, and by the marquis de Torey for the French 
appeared that the Engliſh plenipotentiaries were not in eam 
that the Dutch were entirely guided by the duke of Marl. 
The French king was gradually brought to comply. wi 
þ 8 dually omply with all 

mands of the allies, excepting that of employing his own t 
gainſt the duke of Anjon, in Spain, where the fortune of . 
rinued ſtill doubtful. * All his offers were rejected by the d 
bis aſſociates, and the war was continued. Wa 
The unreaſonable hanghtineſs of the Engliſh plenipotenti 
Gertruydenburg ſaved France, and affairs from. that day toe 
in their favour. Means were found to convince the queen, 
not deſtitute of ſenſe, and faithfully attached to the church 
Jand, that the war in the end, if continued, moſt prove ruinot 
and her people, and that the whigs were no friends to the 

ah religion. The general cry of the people was that the chu 
in danger, which, though groundleſs, had great effects. On 
everel, an ignorant, worthleſs preacher, had eſpouſed this 
in one of his ſermons, with the ridicu{ous, impracticable « 
of paſſive obedience and non-refiſtance. It-was, as it were, 
by both parties to try their ſtrength in this man's caſe. 
impeached by the commons, and found guilty by the lor 
ventured to paſs upon him only à very ſmall cenſure. 
trial the queen's affetions were entirely alineated from the 
of Marlborough, and the wy adminiſtration, \ Her frie 
their places, which were ſupplied by tories, and even d 
mand of the army was taken from the duke of Marlborouf 
given to the duke of Ormond, who produced orders for a « 
of arms; but they were diſregarded by the queen's allies in 
tiſh pas. ot _ py 
Conferences were opened for a peace at Utrecht, to 
queen and the French king ſent plenipotentiaries, and the 
ing deeated at Denain, they grew ſenſible that they were 
for the French, now that they were abandoned by the Engl 
ſhort, the terms were agreed upon between France and 
The reader needs not be inſormed of the particular ceſhions 
the French, ' eſpecially that of Dunkirk; but aſter all, ! 
would have been indefenſible had it not been for tlie des 
emperor Joſeph, by which his brother, Charles III. for x. 
war was chiefly undertaken, became emperor of Germany, 
as king of Spain, and the bad faith of the Engliſh allies, in 
filling their engagements, and throwing upon the Britiſh pa 
almoſt the whole weight of the war, not to mention the e 
ſlate of the kingdom. Mr Harley, who was created earl ob 
and lord high treaſurer of England, was then confiderel 
queen's firſt miniſter, but the negociations ſor the peace v 
the hands of Mr Harley and lord Bolingbroke, one of the 
ſecretaries of ſtate, The miniſtry endeavoured to flifle 
plaints of the whigs, and the remonſtrances of prince Euy 
arrived in England on the part of the. allies, by failing 
contraQtors, foragers, and other agents of the fleet and arm 
they accuſed of corrupt practices. b 

The queen was at this time in a critical ſituation. 


E NM. G. I. 4A N 0 444 
| ing to anſwer the arguments of the tories for 
An as ſhameful, © The majority of the houſe of lords was 
party, but that of the houſe of commons were tories. The 
Len afraid that the peers would reject the peace, and by an 
emed exerciſe of her prerogative the created twelve peers at 
ve, which ſecured the apptobation of the parliament for the 
buch was the ſtate of affairs at this critical period; and 1 
un think from their complexion that the queen had by ſome 
ence, which never has yet been diſcovered, and was even 
d from her miniſters, inclined to call her brother to the ſuc 
The reſt of the queen's life was rendered uneaſy by the jar - 
Fparties, T'ne Whigs demanded a writ tor the eleQoral prince 
ner, as duke of Cambridge, to come to England, and ſhe 
ized to diſmiſs ber lord treaſurer, when the fell into a lethar- 
rler, which carried her off on the firſt of Auguſt 1714, in 
lech year of her age, and the thirteenth year bf her reign *. 
thing to add to what I have already ſaid of her character, 
kt, though ſhe was a favourite with neither party in her par · 
* ill towards the end of her reign, when the tories affected to 
ther, yet her people dignified her with the name of the Good 
| Anne. NY all I have faid of the exhauſted tare 
wand before the peace of Utrecht was concluded, yet the pub- 
pdit was little or nothing affected by her death, though the na- 
lebt then amounted to about fiſty millions, ſo firm was the 
of the people upon the ſecurity of parliament. 
je bad not ſtrength of mind, by herſelf, to carry any important 
into execution ; and the left public meaſures in ſo indecitive. 
that upon her death the ſucceſſion took place in terms of 
lud ſettlement, and George I. elector of Hanover, was pro- 
d ting of Great Britain, his mother, who would have been 
n fucceſſion, having died but a few days before. He came 
u kagland with ſtrong prepoſſeſſions againſt the tory miniſtry, 
Avhom he diſplaced ; but this did not make any great altera - 
bs prejudice in England; while the Scots were driven into 
nin 1715, which was happily ſuppreſſed in the beginning of 
cher. Some deluded noblemen and gentlemen in the North 
ud joined a party of the Scots rebels, but they were ſurround- 
Milon, where they delivered up their arms, and their leaders 
ki priſoners to London, where ſome of them ſuffercd, The 
1d Jacobites, however, raiſed mobs and commotions at Lon- 
Ward, and other parts of England, but they were ſoon ſup- 
. preſſed⸗ 


"th her ended the line of the Ste warts, which from the acteſſton of James 
0 bad ſuayed the ſceptre of England 111 years, and that of Scotland 345 
the acceſſion of Robert II. anno 1371. James the late pretender, fon of 
ud brocher to.queen Anne, upon his father's deceaſe, anno 1701, was 
Bod ot Eugiand, by Lewis XIV at St Germains, and for ſome time 
* by the courts of Rome, France, Spain and Turin, He reſided at 
7 Kept up the appearance of a court, and continued firm in the Romiſh 
-w_ which happened a few years ſince. He left two ſon;, viz. Charles 
4 is deſcated at Culloden, in 1746, and upon his father's death, re- 
„e where he is (aid chiefly to reſide as a private gentleman. Henry, 
* — al Yo : dignificd place in the church of Rome, and is kyown 
inal Jo: | 
"0 


N 
= 


- : 
* | 4 + 
TRY 


9" E N W wee 


uns by making their ringleaders exaniples'6f jullice. 
rd was Capriſourd for three years; but — — * 2 — 
6 him by the whigs for the hand he had in the peace of Utrecht 
. ſecretly diſapproved of by the king, and dropped. 
Aſter all, the nation was in ſuch u diſpoßtiom that the « 
durſt not venture to call a new parliament, and the member 
which was ſitting voted a continuance of their duration from 
to ſeven years, which is thought to have been the greatell f 
parliamentary power ever known. Several other extraord 
meaſures took place about the fame time Mr Shippen, an er 
ſpeaker, and member of parliament, was ſent to the Tower & 
ing that the king's ſpeech was calculated for the-meridiatof 
ver rather than of London; and one Matthews, a young jo 
man printer, was hanged for compoſing à ſilly pamphlet, t 
later times would not have been thought worthy of animady 
The truth is, the whig miniſtey were exceſlively jealous of 
thing that ſeemed to affect their maller's title, and Georye |, 
ſagacious moderate prince, undoubtedly rendered England te 
ſer viant to his continental connections, which were various and 
plicated. He quarrelled with the Czar of Muſcovy about the 
man concerns, and had not Charles XII. king of; Sweden 
killed ſo critically as he was, Great Britain probably wou 
been invaded by thoſe Northern conquerors, great preparati 
ing made for that purpoſe. | of 
In 1718, he quarrelled with Spain on account of the qu 
alliance, that had been formed by Great Britain, France, Ge 
and the ſtates general; and his admiral, Sir George Byng, 
orders, deſtroyed the Spaniſh fleet near Syracuſc. A tritt 
with Spain then commenced, but it was ſoon ended by the 5p 
delivering up Sardinia and Sicily, the former to the duke of 
and the latter to the emperor. 6 5 
A national puniſhment different from plague, peſtilenee, 
mine, overtook England in the year 1720, by the ſudden rilg 
South-Sea ſtock, one of the trading companies, This compa 
but of late erection, and was owing to a ſcheme of carrying 
excluſive trade, aud making a ſettlement in the South-Seas, 
had been formed in 1911. In 1920 the company obtained bons . 
to increaſe their capital ſtock by redeeming the publie debt ran 


was then inveſted with the aſſiento of negroes, which had bee F, a 
lated between Great Britain add Spain. In ſhort, it becam o the 
vourite a company, that by the twentieth of June this) Ca. 
ſock roſe to 890 per cent. and afterwards to 10co ; but be erh 
end of September it fell to 150, by which thouſands were i W721 
in ruin. Though this might be owing to the inconſiderate period 
of the ſubſcribers, yet the public imagined that the miniltry ona 
tributed to the calamity; and ſome of the directors inmuaggg 
the miniſters and their friends had been the chief ganers- d riſe, 
ter, however, had the addreſs to eſcape without cenſure, x conce 


parliament paſſed a bill which cqufiſcated the eilates of ar uy 
10 v dt, | 
Warts g 


with an allowance for their maintenance; a poor repar 
public injuries. EY g 
Ihe Jacobites thought to avail theinſelves of che nationd „ an, 


ſequence of the South-Sea ſcheme, and England's connections 
& rhe continent, which every day increaſed. - On this, one Lay- 
_awyer; was tried and executed for high-treaſon. Several perſons 
de quality and diſtinction were apprehended on ſuſpieion, but 
1 chiefly on Francis Atterbury, lord biſhop of Rocheſ- 
vho was deprived of his ſee and feat in parliament, and baniſh- 
we life, This muſt have been at belt an idle plot, and the reality 
Las never been diſcovered, ſo that the juſtice of the biſhopꝰs 
has been queſtioned, After the ferment of this plot had 
ad, the miniſtry, who were ail in the intereſt of Hanover, ven- 
g upon ſeveral bold meaſures, in ſome of which the national in- 
4 not honour was evidently ſacrificed to that electorate- The 
of Great Britain was engaged in every continental diſpute, 
wer remote it was from her intereſt ; and the difference ſtill ſub- 
between the courts of Madrid and Vienna, it was agreed that 
auld be determined by a congreſs to be held at Cambray, under 
wſpices of France. This congreſs proved abortive, and Eng- 
lun involved in freſh difficulties on account of Hanover. 80 
ming was the (late of Europe at this time, that in September 


t Britain, France, and Pruflia, to counterbalance an alliance 
had been formed between the courts of Vienna and Madrid. A 
wron was {ent to the Baltic, another to the Mediterranean, and 
Id, under admiral Hoſier, to the Weſt Indies, to watch the 
1b plate fl:ets. This laſt was a fatal as well as an inglorious 
dition. The admiral and moſt of his men periſhed by epidemi- 
leaſes, and the hulks of his ſhips rotted ſo as to render them 
fer ſervice. The management of the Spaniards was little bet- 
They lot near 10,000 men in the ſiege of Giberalter, which 
ure obliged to raiſe. The king in his ſpeech to the parlia- 

publicly accuſed the eraperor of a deſign to place the preten- 
won the throne of Great Britain, but this was ſtrenuoufly de- 
Y baron Palmer, the imperial refident at London, who was 
thre ordered to leave the kingdom. 
qurrel with the emperor was the moſt dangerous to Hanover 
þ that could happen; but though an oppoſition in the houſe of 
ns was formed by Sir William — . Mr Pulteney, 
Miament continued to be more and more laviſh in granting 
þ and raiſin enormous ſubſidies for the protection of Hano- 
u the kings of Denmark and Sweden, and the landgrave of 
Cal. Such was the Rate of affairs in Europe, when George 
ry died on the eleventh of June, 1727, at Oſnaburgh, in 
Wy-eighth year of his age, and the thirteenth of; his reign. 
prod is too late to offer any thing new by way of obſervation 
Mona! Improvements. The reign of George I. is remarkable 
ENedile number of bubbles and cheating projects, to which 
rl, and for the great alteration of the ſyitem of Europe, 
wer which the Engliſh took in the affairs of the conti - 
The wſttuion of the ſinking fund ſor diminiſhing the na- 
ed, 's likewiſe owing to this period. The value of the Nor- 
Ms of the kingdom began now to be better underſtood than 
„ad the tate: of manufactures began to ſhilt, This was 
chiefly 


N 4 N D- | 49 


k, afreſh treaty was concluded at Hanover between the kings 


= 


„%  @2NGH A N 3 
chieſſy owipg to the unequal diſtribution of the land-tax, wh 
dered it difficult tor the poor to ſuhſiſt in certain counties, 
had been forward in giving in the true value of their cllate, 8 
that tax took place, : RY | 
Sir Robert Walpole was conſidered. as firſt. miniſter of x 

when George I. died, and ſome differences having happenedbe 
him and the prince of Wales, it was generally thought, tha 
the acceſſion of the latter to the crown, Sir Robert wor 
diſplaced. . That might have been the caſe could another 

| have been found equally capable, as he: was, to manage the 
of commons, and to gratify that predilection for tunover 
George II. inherited jrom his father, No miniſter ever und 
better the temper of the people of England, and, none perhag 
tried it more. He filled all places of power, truſt, and profi 
almoſt the houſe: of commons itſelf, with his own ereatur 
peace was his darling object, becauſe he thought that war « 
fatal to his power. The times are too recent for me to ente 
particulars. It is ſufficient to ſay, that during his long adm 
tion he never loſt a queſtion that he was in earnelt to carry, 
exciſe ſcheme was the firſt meaſure that gave a ſhock to his 4 
and even that he could have carried, had he not been afraid 

| fpirit of the people without doors, which might have either 
eed an inſurrection, or endangered his intereſt in the next ger 
legion. Having compromiſed all differences with Spain, | 
all the courts of Europe with embaſſies and negociations, 
new parliament gratified him with the means of perſorming 

agements. He continued and enlarged the ſublidies paid 

|, — princes for the ſecurity of Hanover, and had even 
dreſs to obtain trom time to time votes of credit for fulfilling 
termediate engagements, and in the mean while, to amuſe ti 
lie, he ſuffered inquiries into the (tate of the jails, and othe 
ters that did not affect his own power, to proceed. 

His pacific ſyſtem brought him, however, into inconver 
both at home and abroad. He encouraged the Spantards tg 
nue their depredations upon the Englith thipping in the An 
ſeas, and the French to treat the Euglith court with infoleng 
neglect. At home, many of the great peers thought the 
ſlighted, and they intereſted themſelves more than ever dg 
dore in elections. This, together with the diſguſt of the p 
the propoled exciſ: ſcheme, about the year +736 and 1757» | 
ed the minority in the houſe of commons to 1 30, ſome of whot 
as able men aud as good fpeakers as ever bad ſat in a pan 
and taking advantage of the increaſing complaints againit i 
niards, they gave the miniſter great uneafineſs. Having the 
Walpole's adminiftration in the unfavourable, it is but juk 
to the molt advaurageous light it will admit of. 

He bll:d the courts of juſtice with able and upright ju 
was he ever kuown to attenipt any perverſion of the known 
the kingdom. He was ſo far from checking the freedom df 
that he bore with cquanimity the moſt ſcurrilous abule'V 
thrown out to his tace. He gave way to one or two prote 


far libels, in complailance to bis friends, who thought Wem 


% 


80:80 408: 431 
by them, and it cannot be denied that the preſs of England 
en wore open or free than during his adminiſtration. If he 
| the majority of parliament by corruption. Which is the 
i charge againſt him, it is not to be denied that his enemies 
len influenced by no very laudable motives, and that the at- 
made, without ſpecifying any charge, to remove him 
is majeſty's councils and preſence for ever, was illegal and 
4s to his pacific ſyſtem, it certainly ꝙore than repaid to 
fon all that was required to ſupport it, by the increaſe of her 
| and the improvement ot her manufacturer. 
th regard to the king's own perſonal concern in public mat- 
Kalpole was rather his miniſter than his favourite, and his 
Me often hinted to him, as Walpole himſelf has been heard to 
pledge, that he was reſponſible for all the meaſures of govern- 
The debates concerning the Spaniſh depredations-in the Weſt 
and the proofs that were brought to ſupport the complaints 
+ merchants, made at laſt an impreflion even upon many of 
wes friends, The heads of the oppoſition in both houſes of 
ent accuſed the miniſter of having by the treaty of Seville, 
ler negociations, introduced a branch of the houſe of Bour- 
ao Italy, and depreſſed the houſe of Auſtria, the ancient and 
ally of England. They | expoſed, with invincible force of 
ute and reaſoning, the injuſtice and diſgrace as well as loſs 
prom the Spaniſh depredarions, and the neceſſii y of repelling 
y force. Sir Robert adhered to his pacific ſyſtem, and con- 
dz (hameful and indefenſible compromiſe, under the title of a 
non, with the court of Spain, which produced a war with 
tion, 
n Caroline, conſort to George II. had been always a firm 
to the miniſter, but the died when a variance ſubſiſted between 
Wy and bis ſon the prince of Wales. The latter complained, 
rough Walpole's influence he was deprived not only of the 
i but the proviſion to which his birth entitled him, and he 
Welt at the head of the oppoſition with ſo much firmneſs, that 
generally foreſeen that Walpolc's power was drawing to a 
Admiral Vernon, who . hated the minifter, was ſent with a 
n of ſix ſhips to the Welt Indies, where he took and demo- 
Porto Bello; but being a hot, impracticable man, he miſcar- 
ls other attempts, eſpecially that upon Carthagena, in which 
doulands of Britiſh lives were wantonly thrown away. The 
a exuſted in Vernon's ſucceſs, and imputed his miſcarri- 
be miniſter's ſtarving the war, by with-holding the means 
ſug it on. The general election approaching, 10 prevalent 
kitterelt of the prince of Wales in England, and that of the 
Argyle in Scotland, that a majority was returned to parlia- 
m were no friends to the miniſter, and aſter a few trying 
te retired from the houſe, reſigned his employments, and 
N aſter he was created earl of Oxford. 
* II. bore the loſs of his miniſter with the greateſt equani- 
kd even couterred titles of honour and potts of diſtinction 
leads of the oppoſition. -By this time, the death of the 
Carles VI. the danger of the pragmaric ſanction (which 
| : mean; 


1 | K OE 1 
„ n %\& , 
chieſſy ow ing to. the une qual diſtribution of the 
dered it difficult tor the poor to ſubſiſt in certain count 
bad been forward in giving in the true value of their ef 
that tax took place, as 9 960 
Sir Robert Walpole was conſidered. as firſt miniſter of 
whea George I. died. and ſome differences having happens 
him and the prince of Wales, it was generally thought, 
the acceſſion of the latter to the crown, Sir Robert 
diſplaced. . That might have been the caſe 'conld ano 
| have been found equally capable, as be was, to 
| of commons, and to gratify that predilection for Hun 
George II. inherited jrom his father, No miniſter ever 
better the temper of the people of England, and none pe 
tried it more. He filled all places of power, truſt, and x 
almoſt the houſe: of commons itſelf, with his own ereat 
peace was his darling object, becauſe he thought that 
fatal to his power, The times are too recent for me to « 
particulars. It is ſufficient to ſay, that, during his long ad 
tion he never loſt a queſtion that he was in carnelt to: 
exciſe ſcheme was the firſt meaſure that gave a thock to 
and even that he could have carried, had he not been af 
ſpirit of the people without doors, which might have eiche 
eed an inſurrection, or endangered his intereſt in the nent 
lection. Having compromiſed all differences with Span 
all the courts of Europe with embaſſies and 'negociations, 
new parliament gratified him with the means of perſormis 
re He continued and enlarged the ſubſidies pai 
rman prinees for the ſecurity of Hanover, and had eve 
dreſs to obtain from time to time votes of credit for fulfill 
termdiate engage ments, and in the mean while, to-amaſe 
lie, he ſuffered inquiries into the ſtate of the jails, and oi un 
ters that did not affect his own power, to proceed. 
His pacific ſyſtem brought him, however, into inn 
both at home and abroad. He encouraged the Spaniards 
nue their depredations upon the Engliſh thipping in the | 
ſeas, and the French to treat the_Euglith court with inſo Ada 
neglect. At home, many of the great peers thought ln of 
flighted, and they intereſted themſelves "more than ever} 
done in elections. This, together with the diſguſt of the 
the propoſed exciſ: ſcheme, about the year +736 and 4741) 
ed the minority in the houſe of commons to 130, ſome f 
as able men and as good fpeakers as ever had ſat in 4 panic r 
and taking advantage of the increaſing complaints again ii: 


niards, they gave the miniſter great uneafineſs. Haring i iter 
Walpole's adminiſtration in the unfavourable, it is but jury 
to the molt advautageous Jight it will admit of. - bo » 


He filled the courts of jultice with able and upright ; 
was he ever known to attempt any perverſion of the Eno 
the kingdom. He was ſo far from checking the freedom d 
that he bore with cquanimicy the molt ſcurrilous abut 
thrown out to his face. He gave way to one or wo pt 


for libels, in coppiailance to his friends, who thought Went. 


yew = * ** * 
* 2 N = 
* \ /V 7 


=- 


| an 


EN G L A * . 

Jeri, and it cannot be denied that the preſs of 
yore open or free than during his\adminiſtration. © If he 
he majority of parkament by corruption. Which is the 


\nfuenced by no very laudable motives, and that the at- 
made, without ſpecifying any charge; to remove him 
mijeſty's councils and - preſence for ever, was illegal and 
4 to his pacific ſyſtem, it certainly gore than repaid to 
all that was required to ſupport it, by the increaſe of her 
al the improvement of her manufacturer, 

ward to the king's on perſonal concern in public mat- 


then binted to him, as Walpole himſelf has been heard to 
te, that he was reſponſible for all the meaſures of govern 
i debates concerning the Spaniſh depredations in the Weſt 
ad the proofs that were brought to ſupport the complaints 


4 9915 364 1IE 5 


S - 


friends, The heads of the oppoſition in both houſes of 
N accuſed the miniſter of having by the treaty of Seville, 
pnegociations, introduced a branch of the houſe of Bour- 
aly, and depreſſed the houſe of Auſtria, the ancient and 
ly of England. They | expoſed, with invincible force of 
ad rraſoning, the injuſtice and diſgrace as well as loſs 
pain en the Spaniſh depredations, and the neceſſity of repelling 
jon WT force. Sir Robert adhered to his pacific ſyſtem, and con- 
| ſhameful and indefenſible compromiſe, under the title of a 
In, with the court of Spain, which produced a war with 


b Caroline, conſort to George II. had been always a firm 
muſe the miniſter, but ſhe died when a variance ſubſiſted between 
und dis ſon the prince of Wales, The latter complained, 
kg? Walpole's influence he was deprived not only of the 
conn the proviſion to which his birth entitled him, and he 
elf at the head of the oppoſition with ſo much firmneſs, that 
iy foreſeen that Walpole's power was drawing to a 
Admiral Vernon, who . hated the minifter, was ſent with a 
of fix ſhips to the Welt Indies, where he took and demo- 
Ito Bello; but being a hot, impracticable man, he miſcar- 
$ other attempts, eſpecially that upon Carthagena, in which 
ads of Britiſh lives were wantonly thrown away. de 
| exulted in Vernon's ſucceſs, aud imputed his miſcarri- 
le miniſter's ſtarving the war, by with-holding the means 
jg it on. The general election approaching, 10 prevalent 
nereſt of the prince of Wales in England, and that of the 
apyle in Scotland, that a majority was returned $0 parlia - 
® vere no friends to the miniſter, and after a few trying 


2 Io 


* 


8.8 8 


now ter he was created earl of Oxford. 
om 00 II. bore the loſs of his miniſter with the greateſt equani- 
leren conferred titles of honour and potts of diſtinction 
teads of the oppoſition. -By this time, the death of the 
les VI. the danger of the pragmaric ſanction which 
; f * mean; 


againſt him, it is not to be denied that his enemies 


ge was rather his miniſter than his favourite, and his 


le retired from the houſe, reſigned his employments, and 


- 


ants, made at laſt an impreſſion even upon many of 


- — 
= 5 ” = — r —— 
* — 4 = + 
8 — — 
X — 
a > 7 
1 - 
= 
— 


/* 


— 


2 . - _ — = - _ 4 — o 
ET _ — 0. * 


— os — — 
2 <a . ˙ ——— —- ! ooo — —— = 
— — — 


| 42 * E NN 18 4 A N D. 
meant the ſuccefſion of his daughter to the Auflisten d 


cot the treaſury, and appointed chancellor of the encheg 


with a few followers in a frigate to the Weſtern coalts of 


Ll — \ 
\ * 


through the ambition of France, Who had filled afl Gert 
her armies, and many other concurrent cauſes, induced 
take the leading part in a contmental war, He was ence 
this by lord Carteret, afterwards earl of Granville, an af 
headſtrong miniſter, whom George had made his ſeerets 
and, indeed, by the voice of the nation in general, ' 
dingly put himſelf at the head of his army, fought and g 
battle of Dettingen; and his not ſuffering his general, « 
Stair, to improve the blow, was thought to-proceed from't 
for his electoral dominions. This partiality created" an 
flame in England, and the clamoùr raiſed againſt his lord 
ſures was increaſed by the duke of Neweallle and his hrot 
chancellor Hardwicke, the lord Harrington, and other 
who reſigned, or offered to reſign their places, if lord 
ſhould, retain his influence in the cabinet. His majeſty w 
to give way to what he thought was the voice of his'peoplt 
indulged them with gceepting the ſervices of ſome gentle 
never had been conſidered as zealous friends to the hou 
ver. After various removals, Me Pelham was placed t 


conſequently was conſidered as firſt miniſter, or rather 
of the premierſhip was divided between him and his brother 
of Newcaſtle. * be 1,45; rare 
Great Britain was then engaged in à very expenſive 
gainſt the French and Spaniards,” and her enemies ſougt 
themſelves of the general diſcontent that had prevailed in 
on account of Hanover, and which, even in parhamentar' 
exceeded the bounds of duty. This naturally ſuggeſtedto 
idea of applying to the pretender, who reſided at Nome, 
greed that his ſon Charles, who was a ſprightlyyourgm: 
repair to France, from whence he ſet füll, and narrow 


between the iflands of Mull and Sky, where he diſcovere 
aſſembled his followers, and publiſhed a manifeſts ex 
nation to a rebellion. © It is neceſſary, before weretate? 
countable ſucceſs of this enterpriſe, to make a ſhort retrol 
reign parts. 4 8 ö 

| The war of 1741 proved unfortunate in the Weſt Tndiry 
the ſatal diviſions between admiral Vernon and general W. 
who commanded the land troops, and it was thought! 
20,000 Britiſh ſoldiers and ſeamen periſhed” in the unpra 
tempt of Carthagena, and the inclemency of the air and clit 
ing other idle expeditions. The year 1742 had been pen 
ciatious with the courts of Peterſburgh and Berlin, wine 
expenſive, proved of little or no ſervice to Great Britain,! 
victory of Dettingen left the French troops in mueh the f 
tion as before. A difference between the admirals Ma 
Leſtock had ſuffered the Spaniſh and French fleets to ei 
*Youlon with but little Joſs; and ſoon after the French, 
before acted only as allies to the Spaniards, declared K 
Great Britain, who, in her turn, declared war againlt th 


- | 
Sz RK GG UH 4 KK I 434 
\ the natural allies of England, during this war carried 
werative trade, nor could they be brought to act againſt 
Tull the people entered into aſſociations and inſurrec- 
Ade government. Their marine was in a miſerable con- 
in of when they at laſt ſent a body of troops to join the Bri- 
* ulrian armies, which, indeed, had been wretchedly com- 
Ges hr one or two campaigns, they did it with ſo bad a grace, 
nd d 1 they did not intend to act in earneſt. When the 
berland took upom himſelf the command of the army, 
& to the great reproach of the allies, were almoſt maſters 
mer in the Netherlands, and were beſieging Tournay. 
gtempted to raiſe the ſiege, but by the coldneſs of the 
the cowardice of the Dutch, whoſe government all along 
wt correſpondence with France, and miſconduct ſome- 
he loſt the battle of Fontenoy, and 7000 of his belt men, 
tis generally allowed that his diſpoſitions were excellent, 
u and his troops behaved with unexampled intrepidity. 
whalance ſuch a train of misfortunes, admiral Anſon re- 
ear to England, with an immenſe treaſure, which he 
fom the Spaniards, in his voyage round the world; and 
commodore Warren, with colonel Pepperel, took from 
| the important town and fortreſs of Louiſburg , in the 
Ine Preton. 6 
s the tate of affairs abroad in Auguſt 1745, when the 
eldeſt ſon, at the head of ſome Highland followers, ſur- 
idiſarmed a party of the king's troops in the Weſtern 
xd advanced with great rapidity to Ferth. I ſhall only 
[ have already ſaid of the progreſs and ſuppreflion of 
u, that it ſpread too great an alarm through England. 
ment never ſo thoroughly experienced, as it did at that 
net of the public debt for the ſupport of the revolution. 
and the Jacobite party (for ſuch there was at that time 
i had laid a deep ſcheme for diſtreſſing the Bank; but 
anger aboliſhed all diſtinctions, and united them in the 
ode intereſt, which was private property. The merchants 
in their addreſs to the king, to ſupport it, by receiving 
an payment. This ſeaſonable meaſure ſaved public cre- 
lie defeat of the rebels by the duke of Cumberland at Cul- 
the executions that followed, did not reſlore tranquility 
+ Tho” the prince of Orange, ſon-in-law to his majeſty 
mas, by the credit of his majeſty and the fpirit ot the 
tte United Provinces, raiſed to be their Stadtholder, the 
7 could be brought to act heartily in the war. The al- 
Gleated at Val, near Maeſtricht, and the duke of Cum- 
zin danger of being made priſoner. Bergen-op-zoom 
na manner that has never yet been accounted for. The 
: d other diſgraces on the continent; and it now became 
9mon in England, that peace was neceſſary to fave the 
Warmy from total deſtruction. By this time, however, 
"Bare and commerce were in danger of being annihila- 
lugliſn at ſea, under the commands of the admirals An- 
„ Hawke, and other gallant officers z but the Engliſh 
31 N arms 


an d( 
Gern 
ced ( 
ence 


4 
9 
4 
b 
. 
1 8 
f. 
= 
. N 
1 
» 
? 
I 
4 
2» 


434 E N G DU A&A WE 


g ing the preſiminaries of peace, was $4343 namely, 16 


tinned their money in the funds, and a few who fold o 


210 


arms were not ſo ſucceſsful as could have been wiſhed 
admiral Boſcawen in the Eaſt Indies. In this ſtate of 
ſueceſſes of the French and Engliſh during the war, ma 
have been balanced, and both miniſtries turned their 
peace, The queſtion is not yet decided which purty had 
reaſon to deſire it, the French and \Spaniards for the 
they had ſuſtained by ſea, or the allies for the diforas 
ſuffered by land. =_ | 

Whatever may be in this, prelinfinaries for peace we 
April 1748, and a definitive treaty was concluded at 
Pelle, in October, the baſis of which was the reftituti 
ſides of all places taken during the war. The number 
ken by the Engliſh in this war, from its commencement 


Spaniards, and 2185 from the French; and that they 
the war, 3238; 1360 being taken by the Spaniards, x 
the French. Several of the thips taken from the $p; 
immenſely rich; ſo that the balance upon the whole: 
almoſt two millions, in favour of the Engliſh. Such 
calculation on both fides, but the confequences plainly 
the loſſes of the French and Spaniards muſt have been 
The vaſt fortunes made by private perſons in England 
den, ſufficiently ſnewed that immenſe ſums had not bee 
the public account; but the greateſt proof was, that 50 
intereſt of the national debt was reduced from four to 
half per cent. for ſeven years, after which the whole rel 
reduced to three per cent. ; 

This was the boldeſt ſtroke of financing that ever u 
perhaps in any country, conſiſtently with public faith; 
ditors of the government, after a ſmall ineffectual opp 


intereſt to have it replaced on the ſame ſecurity, or 
their principal ſums out of the finking fund. This v 
improvements: Mr Pelham's candour and rectitude of 
tion leaving him few or no enemies in parliament, and 
no opportunity of carrying into execution every ſehems 
provement of commerce, manufactures, and the fiherieyi:ic: 
fits of which were felt during the ſucceeding wan, and in 
day. Every intelligent perion, however, conſidered id a 
Aix-la-Chapelle as no better than an armed ceſſation N 
The French employed themſelves in reeruiting and my 
marine, and had laid a deep ſcheme for poſſeſſing then re: 
Britiſh back ſettlements in America, and for cutting oe, 
nication between the Engliſh and the native Indians, . 
our colonies mult have been reduced to a narrow flip ach, 
without the means of getting any ſubſiſtance but {rom nyt cf 
country. Fortunately ſor Great Britain, they diiciol 
tention by entering upon holtilities before they had pow 


; them. "We, 


In the mean while, a new treaty of commerce was (8 ir 1; 
drid, between Great Britain and Spain, by which, in 
of 100,000 l. the South-Sea company gave up all thei 


* 


2 W GC l. AN D: 433 


+0 contract, by virtue of which, that company had ſup- 
a Weſt Indies with negroes. In March 1750, died, 
Lmented, his royal highneſs Frederic prince of Wales. 
yell an act paſſed for regulating the commencement of the 
which the old ſtyle was aboliſhed, and the new ſlyle eſta - 
"the vaſt conveniency of the ſubject. This was done by 
days in September, 1752, and thereafter beginning the 
itt of January. In 1753 the famous act paſſed ſor pre- 
ſudelline marriages; but whether it is for the benefit of 


FP Th point that is ſlill very queſtionable. The public of 
nar bout this time ſuſtained an immenſe loſs by the death of 
ber « m who was indiſputably the honeſteſt, wiſeſt, the moſt 


td therefore the moſt ſucceſsful miniſter England had 


xced encroachments of the French, who had built ſorts 
ſettlements in America, and the diſpolitions they made 
over vaſt bodies of veteran troops to ſupport thoſe en- 
ps, produced a wonderful ſpirit in England, eſpecially af- 


ch | Boſcawen was ordered with eleven ſhips of the line, be- 
nly e and two regiments, to fail to the Banks of Newfound- 
en ve he came up with and took two French men of war, the 


ir fleet eſcaping up the river-St Lawrence, by the ſtraits 
No ſooner was it known that hoſtilities were begun, 
public of England poured their money into the govern- 
r toll, and orders were iſſued for making general repriſals in 
rell as in America; and that all the French ſhips, whe- 
der homeward bound, ſhould be Ropped and brought in- 
ports. Theſe orders were ſo effectual, that before the end 
ur 1755, above zoo of the richeſt French merchant ſhips, 
ppl: 6000 of their beſt ſailors were brought into Britiſh ports. 
med meaſure had ſuch an effect, that the French had 
to navigate their merchant-men, nor to man their 
, for about two years after near 30,000 French ſeamen 
A to be priſoners in England. 
, general Braddock, who had been injudiciouſly ſent 


hem nd to attack the French and reduce the forts on the O- 
here cicated and killed, by falling into an Ambuſcade of the 
and indians near Fort du Queſne; but major general John- 
xd (ſe a body of the French near Crown Point, of whom he 
ion co. 

at this time conld not be ſaid to have any. firſt mini 
then rreat men agreed in nothing but in oppoſing the meaſures 
geg, which had been undertaken without their conſent, 
ns, OS navy in 1755 conſiſted of one ſhip of 110 guns, five of 
lip ac), :hirteen of go, eight of 80, five of 74, twenty- nine 
ang 65, one of 64, thirty-three of 60, three of 54, twen- 
cla 52, four of 44, thirty-five of 40, and forty-two of 20 ; 
pov © nar of 18 guns each, two of 16, eleven of 14, thir- 


we, and one of 10; beſides a great number of bomb- 

as f zips, and tenders ; a force ſufficient to oppoſe the 
a tirength of all the powers of Europe. Whilſt that 
cit NE), eren at the end of this year, and including the ſhips 
3-3 2 then 


s £ M & £  £ 
then upon the ſtocks, amounted to no more than fix 
guns, twenty-one of 74, one of 72, four of 70, thirty. 
two of 60, fix of 30, and thirty-two frigates. 

In proportion as the ſpirits of the public were elevated 
invincible armaments, they were ſunk with an account 
French had landed 11,000 men in Minorca, to attack ſo 
there; that admiral Byng, who had been ſent ont with 
at leaſt equal to that of the French, had been baffled if nd 
by their admiral Galiffoniere, and that at laſt Minorea t 
dered by general- Blakeney. The Engliſh were far mo 
than they ought to have been at thoſe events. The lok « 
was more ſhameful than detrimental to the kingdom, but 
outcry was ſuch, that the king gave up Byng to public j 
he was ſhot to death at Portſmouth for cowardice. 

It was about this time that Mr Pitt was placed, as fe 
ſtate, at the head of the adminiſtration. He had been lo 
to be a bold ſpeaker, and he ſoon proved himſelf to be as 
miaiſter, The miſcarriages in the Mediterranean had noc 
but the loſs of fort St Philip, which was more than repai 
vaſt ſucceſs of the Engliſh privateers, both in Europe and 
The ſucceſſes of the Engliſh in the Eaſt Indies, under Col 
are almoſt incredible. He defeated Suraja Dowla, nabe 

al, Baha, and Orixa, and placed Jafher Ally Cawnin 
ſeat of the new nabobs of thoſe provinces. Suraja Di 
was in the French intereſt, was a few days after his bet 
ed taken by the new nabob Jaffier Ally Cawn's fon, 
death. This event laid the foundation of the preſent at 
tent of riches and territory, which the Engliſh now pot 
Eaſt-Indies, , 

Mr Pitt introduced into the cabinet a new ſyſtem of opt 
gainſt France, than which nothing could be better caleul 
ſtore the ſpirits of his countrymen, and to alarm their ene 
from dreading an invaſion, he planned an expedition ic 
the arms of England into France itſelf, and the deſcent 
made at Rochefort, under general Sir John Mordaunt, v 
command the land troops. Nothing could be more prom 
the diſpoſitions tor this expedition. It failed on the 8th 
ber 1757, and admiral Hawke brought both the ſea and 
back on the 6th of October, to St Helen's, without the g 
king an attempt to land on the coaſt of France. | 
acquitted without the public murmuring, ſo great an 0 
the people of the miniſter, who, to do him juſtice, did! 
man or a ſhip belonging to the Engliſh army or navy 0 

The French having attacked the electorate of Hanover! 
powerful army, merely becauſe his Britannic majelty rerun 
at their encroachments in America, the Engliſh parkame 
tirude, voted large ſupplies of men and money in delenc 
lectoral dominions. The duke of Cumberland had been! 
to command an army of obſervation, but he had been ſo 
prefied by a ſuperior army, that he found himſelf obli 
down his arms, and the French, under the duke of Ricat 
polſeſlion of that electorate, and its capital. At this ume 


F 


gn O LAW Dt 1 


lune raged in England; and the Heffian troops, who, | ; 


Wnoverians, had been ſent to defend the kingdom from 
«intended by the French, remained ſtill in England. 80 
lies concurring, in 1758 a treaty of mutual defence was 
p between his majeſty and the king of Pruſſia; in-conſe- 
& which, the parliament voted 670,000 1. to his Pruſſian 
ud alſo voted large ſums, amounting in the whole to near 
has 2 year, for the payment of 50.00 of the troops of Ha- 
xG.Cafſel, Saxe-Gortha, Wolfenbuttel, and Buckeburg. 
ar which proved afterwards ſo burdenſome to England, 
ad to unite the proteſtant intereſt in Germany. | 
Il. with the conſent gf his Pruſſian majeſty, pretending 
French had violated the convention concluded between them 
hk: of Cumberland at Cloſterſeven, ordered his Hanoveri- 
& to reſume their arms under prince Ferdinand of Brunſ- 
Inſlan general, who inftantly drove them out of Hanover; 
hike of Marlborough, after the Engliſh had repeatedly in- 
French coaſts, by EY their ſtores and ſhipping at 
s and Cherbourg, marched into Germany, and joined 
linand with 1 2,000 Britiſh troops, which were afterwards 
Ito 25,000, A ſharp war enſued. The Englith every where 
d wonders, and according to the accounts publiſhed in the 
Guette, they were every where victorious, but nothing de- 
bwed, and the enemy opened every campaign with advan- 
hen the battle of Minden, the molt glorious, perhaps, in 
in annals, in which about 7000 Engliſh defeated 
wt the French regular troops in fair battle, contributed no- 
the concluſion of the war, or towards weakening the French 
Ay. 
Inglilh bore the expence of the war with chearſulneſs, and 
Me Pitt's adminiſtration, becauſe their glorious ſucceſſes 
her part of the globe demonſtrated that he was in earneſt. 
loſcawen and general Amherſt, in Auguſt 1758, reduced 
wilted Louiſbourg, in North America, which had been re- 
Ithe French by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, and was be- 
kourge of the Britiſh trade, and took five or ſix French 
be line; Frontenac and fort du Queſne, in the ſame quar- 
uh into the hands of the Engliſh : acquiſitions that far o- 
da check which the Engliſh received at Ticonderago, and 
about zoo of the Engliſh guards, as they were returning 
ral Blizh from the coaſt of France. | 
bolih affairs in the Eaſt Indies this year proved equally 
vnd the lords of the admiralty received letters from thence, 
Kount that admiral Pocock engaged the French fleet near 
and's, on the 29th of March, in which engagement a 
Wn of war, called the Bien Aime, of 74 guns, was ſo much 
dat they run her on ſhore. The French had 600 men 
wounded, on this occaſion, and the Engliſh only 29 kil- 
Y rounded. That on the third of Auguſt following, he 
We French fleet a ſecond time, near Pondicherry ; when, 
mc fring of ten minutes, the French bore away with all 
r uid make, and got ſafe into the road of TR 
The 


435 E N G Li A WED 
The loſs of the French in this engagement was zun killed an 
ed; and that ot the Engliſh only 147 killed and wound 
that on the 14th of December following, general Lally, cn 
of the French army in thoſe parts, marched to beſiege 
which was defended by the Engliſh colonels Lauranee aud 
and after a briſk cannonade, which laſted till the 16th of 
following, the Engliſh having received à reinforcement of 
general Lally thought proper to raiſe the fiege and retire 
cipitation, leaving behind him 40 pieces of cannon, 
The year 1759 was introduced by the taking of the in 
ree, on the coalt of Africa, by commodore Keppel. Thus 
expeditions had been planned for this year in America, 
them proved ſucceſsful. One of them was againſt the Fren 
in the Welt Indies, where, Guadaloupe was reduced, Th 
expedition was againſt Quebec, the capital of the French 
The command was given, by the miniſters advice to gene 
a young officer of a truly military genius. Wolfe was oppt 
far ſuperior forces by Moncalm, the beſt and moſt ſucceſaf 
the French had. Though the fitnation of the country whi 
was to attack, and the works the French threw up to prev 
ſcent of the Englith, were deemed impregnable, yet Mones 
relaxed in his vigilance. Wolfe's courage and perſeveran 
ever, ſurmounting incredible difficulties, he gained the by 
Abraham, near Quebec, where he fought and defeated th 
army, but was himſelf killed; and general Monckton, who 
in command, being wounded, the completion of the Freue 
and the glory of reducing Quebec, was reſerved for brigac 
ral (now lord viſcount) Townſend. _ 
General Amherſt, who was the firſt Engliſh general one 

in America, conducted the third expedition. His orders 
reduce all Canada, and to join the army under general] 
the banks of the river St Laurence. It is to the honour d 
niſter that Mr Amherſt in this expedition was fo well pron 
every thing that could make it ſucceſsſul, that there ſcaree 
ed any chance for its miſcarriage, and thus the French e 
North America became ſubject rg, Great Britain. 
The affairs of the French being now deſperate, and th 
ruined, they reſolved upon an attempt to retrieve all by at 
of Great Britain: but, on the i 8th of Auguſt, 1759, acl 
cawen attacked the Toulon ſquadron, commanded by M. dc 
near the ſtraits of Gibraltar, took Le Centaur of 74, Le 
of 74, and Le Modeſte of 74 guns; and burnt L'Ocean" 
Le Redoubtable of 74 guns. The reſt of the fleet, corlll 
ven ſhips of the line, and three frigates, made their ed 
night. And on November 20, Sir Edward Hawke defeated 
fleet, commanded by admiral Conflans, off the iſland of 
the bay of Biſcay. The Formidable, a French man of ö 
guns, was taken; the Theſe of 74, and the Superbe o 
were ſunk; and the Soleil Koyal of 80, and the Heros d 
burnt. Seven or eight French men of war of the Ine 
river Villaine, by throwing their guns over board; and 


phe fleet, conſiſting of five ſhips of the line, and three i 


* 4 | 
NLA ND. 439 


1 night. The Engliſh loſt on this occaſion, upon the 
© ie coalt, the Eſſex of 64, and the Reſolution of 74 guns. 
engagement, the French gave over all thoughts of their 
Lwafon of Great Britain. | | 
er 1760, captain Thurot, a French marine adventurer, 
Uh three loops of war alarmed the coaſts of Scotland, 
ul made a deſcent at Carrickfergus in Ireland, was, on 
tom thence, met, defeated, and killed, by captain Elliot, 
: »» commodore of three ſhips, inferior in force to the 
s ſquadron. Every day's Gazette added to the accounts 
acceſſes of the Englith,- and the utter ruin of the French fi- 
which that government did not bluſh publicly to avow. Ia 
Great Britain now reigned as ſole miſtreſs of the main, and 
wed:d in every meaſure that had been projected for her own 
ud advantage. ard Ro . 
win Cermany, however, continu:d till as undeciſiye as it 
ave, and many in England began to conſider it now as fo- 
the internal intereſts of Great Britain. The French again 
n ſuewed diſpoſitions for treating; and the charges of the 
ich began now to amount to little leſs than eighteen millions 
xarly, inclined the Britiſh miniſtry to liſten to their propo- 
negotiation was accordingly entered upon, which proved 

x did many other projets for. accommodation ; but, on the 
0#:ber 1750, George II. died ſuddenly, full of years and 
nthe 77th of his age, and 33d of his reign, and was ſuc- 
bj his grandſon, now George III. eldeſt ſon to the late prince 


t, , | ; 
memory of George II. is reprehenſible on ne head but his 
on for his electoral dominions. He never could ſeparate an 
t there was any difference between them and his regal domi- 
nd he was ſometimes ill enough adviſed to declare ſo much 

ſerches to parliament, We. are, however, to remember, that 
pl gratived him in this partiality, and that he never acted by 
ir prerogative, He was juſt rather than generous, and in 

þ of economy, either in his Rate or his houſhold, he was 
o connive at abuſes, if they had the ſanction of law and cu- 
y this means thoſe miſmanagements about his court were 
kd to an enormous degree, and even under-clerks in offices 
blortunes ten times greater than their legal ſalaries or perqui- 

ud raiſe, He was not very acceſlible to converlation, and 

ret was no wonder, that having left Germany after he had 

i man's eſtate, he ſtill retained foreign notions both of 
tungs. In government he had no favourite, for he parted 
r Robert Walpole's adminiſtration with great indifference, 
td very little concern at the ſubſequent revolutions among 

ts, I his quality may be deemed a virtue, as it contribu- 
to the interval quiet of his reign, and prevented the peo- 

* hading the king with the faults of his miniſters. In his 

4 lp ion he was paſſionate, but placable, fearleſs of dan- 
0 auſitary parade, and enjoyed the memory of the cam- 
"Wc he ſerved when young. His affections, either pub- 
mas were never knowa tv interfere with the ordinary 


courſe 


440 E MW G X. 4A \N 


courſe of juſtice ; and though his reign was-dillratiedy 
courts of juſtice were never better filled than under um 
point in which all factions were agreed. 
The brighter the national glory was at the tie 
death, the more arduous was the province of his ſheet 
III. Born and bred in England, he had no prepolleſſi 
his native country, and an excellent education gat hm 
of its intereſts, therefore he was not to be impoſed upon by 
appearances. He knew that neither the finances, nor the; 
of England, could furniſh men and money for ſupplyingt 
ties of the war, ſucceſsful as it was, and yet he was oblige 
tinue it, ſo as to bring it to a happy period. He thoſe i 
"miniſter the earl of Bate, whom he had known ever fines 
to know himſelf, and among the firſt acts of his me 
vince the public that the death of his predeceſſor n 
the operations of the war. Accordingly, in i 
Belleiſle, on the coaſt of France, ſurrendered to his mai 
and forces under commodore Keppel and general Hodpia 
the important fortreſs of Pondicherry” in the Ealt Indies 
Coote and admiral Stevens. The operations again d 
Indies ſtill continued under general Monckton, lord Rolle 
James Dowglas ; and in 1762, the iſland of Mate 
deemed impregnable, with the iſlands of Grenada, Gren 
Vincent, and others of leſs note, were ſubdued by the In 
with inconceivable rapidity. | "08 
By this time the famous family compact among all ie N 
the Bourbon family had. been concluded, that it was found 
to declare war againſt Spain, who having. been hitherto 
pals in the quarrel, had ſcandalouſſy abuſed their neutrality 
of the French. A reſpectable armament was fitted d x 
ral Pocock, having the earl of Albemarle on board tocom 
jand forces, and the vitals of the Spaniſh monarchy were 
by the reduction of the Havannah, the ſtrongeſt and" 
ant fort which his Catholic Majeſty held in the Wel us 
capture of the Hermoine, a large Spaniſh regilter fu N 
Lima to Cadiz, the cargo of which was valued at a mln 
preceded the birth of the prince of Wales, and the went 
in triumph through Weſtminiſter to the Bank, the very! 
born. The loſs of the Havannah, with the ſhips aud tres 
taken from the Spaniards, was ſucceeded by the requgiun 
la in the Eaſt Indies, by general Draper and-admiral Can 
the capture of the Trinidad, reckoned worth three mill 
lars. To counteract thoſe dreadful blows given tothe 
pa, the French and Spaniards opened their laſt reloun 
was to quarrel with and invade Portugal, which had 
under the peculiar protection of the Britiſh arms. 
quarrel was real or pretended is not for me to decide. 
embarraſſed his Britannic majeſty, who was obliged to 
armaments both by ſea and land; but theſe found n 
in checking the progreſs of the Spaniards. 
The negotiations tor peace were now reſumed, andthe! 


concluding one was acknowledged by all his majeſty's Wil 


F * ” . ” ” 
4 * 9 . 1 "os. * 


E N G& LA ND. 444 Y 
ors excepting two. Many difficulties were ſurmonnt ec. 
n Germany, equally uſeleſs and expenſive, was conti- "+ 
the French and iſh with greater fury than ever. 
however, at laſt granted fuch terms as the Britiſh mi- 
admiſſible and adequate to the vecafion. A. ceſſation 
place in Germany, and in all other quarters, and on 
February 17635 the definitive ' treaty of peace between 
ic majeſty, the king of France, and the king of Spain, 
ed at Paris, and acceded may the king of Portugal; 
the ratifications. were exchanged at Paris. The 22d, the 
Wemnly proclaimed at the uſual places in Weſtminiſter 
1; and the treaty having on the 18th been laid before 


it met with the approbation of & majority of both 


treaty, the extenſive province of Canada, with the iſlands 
nc = Cape Breton, and dt John, /were confirmed to 
vin; alſo the two Floridas, with the whole of the conti- 
xt America, on this fide the Miſſiſippi, except the town 

Means, and a ſmail diſtrict round it, was ſurrendered to 
x and Spain, in conſideration of our reſtoring to Spai 
Cuba; and to France the iſlands of Martinico, Gua- 
Mrrizgalante, and Defirade ; and in conſideration of our 
the French the two ſmall ilands of St Pierre and Miquelon, 

of Newfoundland, and quitting our pretenſions to che 

n of St Lucia, they yielded to us the iflands of Grena- 
Grenadilles, and quitted their pretenſions to the neutral 
k Vincent, Dominica, and Tobago. In Africa we re- 
ſttlement of Senegal, by which we engroſs the whole 
of that country; but we returned Goree, a ſmall iſland 

The article that relates to the Eaſt Indies, was die- 

* directors of che Engliſh company, which reſtores to the 
the places they had at the beginning of the war, on con- 
they ſhall maintain neither forts nor forees in the province 

And the city of Manilla'was reſtored to the iards; 
puated to us the liberty of cutting ſogwood in the Bay of 

In America. In Europe, likewrſe, the French reſtored 

land of Minorca, and we reſtored to them the iſland of 
n Germany, after fix years ſpent in marches and conn- 
numerous ſkirmiſhes and bloody battles, Great Britain 

| military fame, but, at the expence of 30 millions 

A to the obje&s of that war, it was agreed that a mutu- 
and oblivion ſhould take place, and each party fit down 
the war in the ſame ſituation in which they began it. And 
alared between Portugal and Spain, both ſides to be up- 

footing as before the war. ** 

Wed 2 war (ſuch were the effects of unanimity at home) 

Flant in the Engliſh annals. No national prejudices, nor 

then exiſted. The ſame truly Britiſh ſpirit by which 

I Was animated, fired the breaſt of the ſoldier and ſea- 

lation had then arrived at a pitch of wealth unknown 
$5, and the.monied man, pleaſed with the aſpe of the 

ung in the abilities of the miniſter, and courage of the 
3K people, 


4 \ % N © 0 = + 
4 ah 


e _ 7 
eople, chearſully opened his püfſe. Thisiieedible ri 
5 nd 22 millions, ſubſcribed by a feu citizens $f Lc 
| Hort notice, ſor the ſer vice of che years 1759, 760 
Vas no leſs aſtoniſhing to Europe; than the flew Whit 
the Britiſh fleets and àrmies in every quirter of the x 
As for the unbuppy diviſions at Rome, wier bc 
the concluſion of the peabe, and ale y Waily" Wee 
conſiderable ſhare in rodueing the preſent Amerſcin wat 
be taken notice of When we come to treat of Awerie 
ſſhall endeavour to trace that Tamentable event to its 10 


, - l 
»”"& & 2 "7 #% : 8 9 . o . 
FD 
- 
© ” * N - . 


— — ————— —— — — - — — — . = - - = . — — — — 9 
— — 


* 4 . 31% * =P 5 
16.0 IU og 1 „„ 


. RU Ts 
"2 $1 W ent, A 14 EP E S. K 
ime ee ee eee 
2109 NEE enn 
r ren © ons 
H E. Welk ars, deloendens 
the; best antiquaties, of 
8 | tlement in. England about fourſcor 
Fore, the firſt deſcent of Julius Hr and ghereby obtamed 
Galles or Walles (the G and W., being promilcuoully uled 
cient Britons) that is, Strangers, Tbeic, language has 
finity with the Celtic, or Phœniciah, And iö highly, cm 
its pathetic and deſcriptive powers by thoſe who ner 
A 40071% 5x8, aner ee 
Sitaation, Boundarier and Extent.] Na re 
er extent than it is at preſent;, being Hounged ente 
and the Dee; but aſter the Saxons Rad made e 
all the plain country, the Welch, or ancient Brtanse 
Vichin more narrow bounds, ang obliged-gradually ig, 
ward. It does not, however, appean..that. the Saxons 
any further conqueſts in | their,conntry+.than Mogmout 
Herefordſhire, which, are now, reckoned park, af 
country is divided into four circuits... See EAgland, 


1 14 nina mig DDr, 
Frace of the Country and Proguge,] It-is very mountain 
a very plentiſul country: they ſerves Briſtol ande 
in England with et? ra in their hills they have rich 
and great plenty of coals, with quarries. of free · ſtone ; a 


| tered by many rivers... rn 


* 
4 
* 


—— _ — 


| 
3. 
[ 
1 
1 
1 
} 
? 
| 
$ 
: 


o K oh „ „r„% — = 


 —_ _ _ 
* _ 1 * 
F oo ²˙ ůw eee 


- = * 3 2 
- - * > =# 4.% "= * 
8 " % => 
+ _ —— 
— — — — ̃ . — 
—_ 1 , a — J —— —— Tay 
4 N — 1 
, r e . ED CE TIEITCT = — 
% * 


—— 


E „ 


A — — —— 
K ·‚ * —— cc. > - 


—— T 


Mountaint.] The mauntains in this cOnntry un 
in height, if not higher than anz in Britain. Bae 
accurately meaſured, and found to be near 1300 yards. 


Cbaracter.] They are a brave hoſpitable people, and 
conquered by the Saxons. Their laſt prince, Liwgjn 
loſt his lite in defence of bis country, when Edward hi 
queſſ of it in the year 1282. Aud that pringe, bfg 


* "IP, * . 


g 2 * ® a 
— * 2 Jr I - * 


1 


4g W. 1 ov : E a2) f 4g. 

being governed by their native princes, fo order-, 
+ 85 oy brought to 8 e 
hee by the as Kdvrd, and ſucceeded to the crown. 

che name of Edward IT; the king's eldelt fon being 
nd..a large revenue ont of that 


* 


, 


ied Prince of, Wales, .a 


xopriated to that principality. 0 
Their religion is the ſame with chat of En land; the 
d geddling people. conform to the . of the Engliſh, 

ale 


Ther language in the greateſt part of 4 


wi uith England-] Wales was inco ed with Eng - 
10 ae in the year 1536, in F147 of Hobs, 
nl they ſend twenty-four members to the Britiſh Houſe of 
15 has been already mentioned. | 
The arms of the Prince of Wales are the ſame as thoſe 
with the addition of a label, three points, and a co- 
ned with three oſtrich feathers, ith the tollowing inſcrip- 
*] Among the curioſities in this country, are reckoned 
Ian altars that have been dug up with inſcriptions on 
ig ſome light into the ſuperſtition, of that people and in 
ya well called Holywell, from the ſuperſlition of the mo- 
mils, who aſcribe numerous miracles to thoſe waters; 
are (ill ſome remains of the wall made by Offa, king of 
ws, in Denbighlhire, to defend his country againk the 
This line of intrenchment, called Offa's dyke, ran through 
ſur, Shropſhire, Montgomerylhire, Denbighſhire, and 


L tower of a caſtle, in Glamorganſhire, has one half in | 
Ithe remaining balf leans fo, that the top overbangs the 
was ket, and. 13, , un ann 
ah. | | 8 | 

ich had antiently among them an order of men called 
o compoſed ſongs relating the actions of their princes and 
men; the laſt of theſe bards, Thaliefſen, lived about the 
the 5th century, and many of his verſes are ſaid to be ex- 
& libraries of Sir Watkin William Wynn, and of the late 
nes, Eſq; Geoffrey of Monmouth, having, it is ſuppo- 
kd bis fabulous biltory of England from the writings of 
bas brought their relations into diſcredit. However, 
trned men who aſſert, that many notable pieces of hiſto- 
e deduced from the preſent remaips of the bards: Ed - 
n he conquered Wales, cauſed all their bards to be put 


ks produced many learned men, in the ſeveral parts oſ li- 
us, indeed, their genius may be put on a level with that 
of their neighbours. N 


] The Pater-noſter of the ancient Britiſh, or preſent 
„ eee Welch, 


U 


FY oF 18LEs." or cee 


en Moved, dy deytnas ; #1 
iair hd; Ty yaw 


| 2*-whas: 


2 I 


„ maddewwn mama in dyled wyr ac nas eral 


dion 
aeth 2555 grvared ni ag deu 4 ' Carinys eidudet i N 


 nerth, en rm 
wo.) 1M 1 TH 

DW Shes. 1 — 

: | *+.. 73 % - 5" 


. 


NAS * © #4 {144% = 
SCOTLAND, AND. zr ie * 
* 1 13 * i 4 N. N T 

$A A 


(ISLES) or scofLanel 


ac vw —— — - +4 9 - — . SP ve 


TA od et 

of North latitnde; and are part ofehellnnnnnl 

he Orcades, or Orkney iflarids, lye North of Dung 
tween 59 and 60 _ of North latitude 3 dio 

tinent 7 Pentland Firth, | | 

The Hebrides, or Weſtern iſles, are'very; 


chem large ; Keuated berween $5 and 59 degrees of oth 


© Climate. ] There is very little difference i tha 
iſlands, the air being keen, piercing, ang Rn 
of the natives live 6 ed In the Shan 
iſlands, they ſee to read at e and Ju 
four of the Summer months, they have frequent 
both for buſineſs aud curioſity wich ene and' 
nent ; the reſt of the year, however , they "are 
. fogs, darkneſs and Rorms, 12 80 „ 
erman was impriſoned a i 
prince and princeſs of of Orlack MP raiſed to the Wa 
the A ole ovember ; 2 ebe would hawey 


had not the & ws been confirmed by the "= 


and Tewns.} ve lac 
| (tho 


- = o 
w — —  — — _ ds — - . N 
* — —— GCk—0 — = a 
— , , ,,, — _ 
— 
a a 
"4 » 

+ 1 Sa 

b - ” 
— 


= * 


— — ——_— 
— 


| 

| 
if 
i 

| 
4 

, 
=m_ 
f 
\ 

; | 
{ : 
FS 


| 


2 — TT — — 


tains $60 families 189 
N 5 Su 


* — * — 
22 = — [Oy — - 
——  —— —— — — —— - 
. A — —— — - 
— A ——_ - 
1 ——— . , 


the ſeat of a preſbytery. 
herrings 1 and their 105 _ lala 
The largeſt of the Orkney iſlands, w 
(though ſeveral of them pled} * 
Ol is 24 miles, and its breadth, in Je 

9 pariſh e 4 — and 4 excellent harbours. 
9 be iſle 1 Mull, mnt 


4. a — ——_— —— 


: N < * * = 
T - 


- 


wy <4, RI moat ens I, LL WTI Reer 25 
—— — 4 * — 2 — —— ——— — * 3 * 4 
| SARS "1 THE | 
* — % 2 | - p ! 
Z . 8 N — _ „ [ my. * 
0 Lenne 1 | "bs. * — 
| oe: 6 Garnet i} ey ty NO Lf IS LA 
; * 7 l G * o # * b = 
ö — 3 'y 5 * % 1. * 
| | | | ; . 
w 
+ 
L 
4 
1 7 Wa P hon 
6 EN GOL ANY 
eee. Page” , f 
| — 2 
— | 


c 


SLES. or SCOTEAND, 
A broad. It contains 2 pariſhes, and a caſtle, 
WEE the chief eiae on the and The 
kids are, Lewis, or Harries, (for 
ich belon to the ſhire of Roſs, 
Nor 44 in breadth, | Sky, belongi 
be is 40 wiles long, and, in ſome plac 


— 
1 
| - 


Hil! 


Fa 


Wide of duke to the eldeſt ſons of the kings of Sco 

es to the prince of Wales. Rothſay, is likewiſ 

s the iſlands of Bute and Arran, form the ſhire 
md jura, arc part of Argyleſhire, but they 
Worthy notice. North Wiſt contains an excellent harbour 
Lodwaddy, famous for 'herring-fiſhing. . I ſhall omit the 
many other of the Hebrides iſlands, which are at * 
gb, 
to 


| avoid mentioni 

of Weſtern learning, and the burying place of many kings 
Wand, Ireland, and Norway, It is ill famous for its reliques 
Emouious antiquity, as ſhall be hereafter mentioned. 

ave been at great pains to deſcribe the iſland of St Kilda,, 
& for no other reaſon that I can diſcover, but becauſe it is 

teſt of all the North-Weſt iſlands, and very difficult of ac - 
br it does not contain aboye 35 families, all of which 

and know very little of the value of money. 1.4," 


Wants, Cuſtores, Population, Language, and Religion.] It is not 
magiged, that the inhabitants of the iſlands belonging to 
ean be ſo minutely deſcribed here, as they have been by 
Wer authors ; not ſo much on account of their importance, as 
nity, Thoſe of Shetland and Orkney were formerly ſub- 
be crown of Denmark, who pledged them, and in the reiga 
I conveyed them in property to the crown of Scotland. 
of Shetland and Orkney, form à ſtewarty, or ſhire, which 
bender to parliament. At preſent, the people in general 
kom the lowlanders of Scotland, only, perhaps they are 
eſt and, religious. Men of fortune there, have improved 
ates wonderfully of late years; and have introduced into 
families alt the luxuries and elegancies that are to be found at 
bot their Engliſh and Scots neighbours. They build their 
* and other houſes, in the moſt faſhionable taſte; and are re- 
* for the fineneſs of their linen. As to the common people, 
"+a butter, cheeſe, fiſh, ſea and land fowl, (of which 
Feat plenty) particularly geeſe ; and their chief drink is 
they have the art to ferment, ſo as to give it a vinous 

# It ſome of the Northern iſlands, the Norwegian, which is 
0 Norſe language, is ſtill ſpoken. Their vaſt intercourſe 
L Dutch, Curing the fiſhing ſeaſon, renders that laaguage 
the Shetland and Orkney iſlands. The pebple there are 
Mu the Norwegians, already deſcribed, in ſeizing the _ 


7 af - \ 


75 


„ tasks 00 sere 
Fee ee, who build in 


6 


Nioching certain can be mentioned as to the 1 
bing: tac popnlation 


_ culture: At preſent, their numbers are ſajid/not to exceed 


__ the feu 


* plenty of fith and fowl, cheeſe, butter · milk, aud whey 3 206 
they chuſe it, plenty of mutton, beef, goats kid; and veniſon 


The reader would not pardon an author, whey in T7 


name of the ſecond fight, -It would be equany abſued 4 


A JD 


- 


9 
1 


| maſt frightful precipices an 
Ry um 0 lerves them from * 
wh They cure the  ſeurvy and the jaundice, to Whi 
are ſabje&, with the powder: of ſnail-ſhells, and ſeurry· gi 


the diſcipline of 5 of Scotland: ditheir;civil. in 
aro nebel fm with thoſe of the dune Waun 


e divitions of iſlands. We have the molt undoubted-« 
of hiſtory, that about. 400 years ago, they, were much wa 
lous than they are now; for the Hebrides themſelveg were 
often to. ſend 10,000 into the field, without prejudice do the 


The people of the Hebrides are cloathed, and line like 
Hightanders, who ſhall bereaſter be deſcribed. - They. are 
 in-gerſvns, conſtitutions, cuſtoms, and prejudices. but with! 
ference, chat as the more poliſhed-manners of the Lowland 
every day gaining ground in the Highlands, perhaps the deſc 
of the ancient Caledonians; in à few years, wil be diſergit 
' Theſe iflands alone retain the ancient/uſages of the Celts 
ſeribed by the oldeſt and beſt authors; bat with a Rtrong tint 
oonſtitution. Their ſhapachies, or- Rory-tellers, 
the place of the ancient bards, ſo famous in hiſtory ; and 
hiſtorians, or rather the genralogiſts, as well as poets, of th 
and family. The chief is likewiſe attended, when he appears 
with his muſician, who is generally a bagpiper, and drel 
manner of, but more ſutnptuouſly than, the Eugiii minitrels 
mer times. Notwithſtanding the contempt into which g 
is fallen, it is almoſt incredible with What garg. and atenned 
cultivated among thoſe iſlanders, fo late as the beginning oft 
ſent century. They had regular colleges: and protenars, 4 
fludents took ces according to their proficiency. Man 
Cehtic rites, ſome of which were too bharbarous 10 be Fetz 
even mentioned, are now abobſhed.- The inhabitant; N 
Riil preſerve the moſt profound reſpe& and afleGion tor thei 
chieftains, notwithſtanding all the pains that have been take 
Britiſh legiſlature to break thoſe connections. which experie 
thewn to be ſo dangerous to government. The common A 
but little better lodged than the Norwegians and Laplanders, 
deſcribed; though they certainly fare better,” for they nave 


indulge themſelves, like their forefathers, in & emal 
turn, which is an enemy to induſtry, and indeed to 66 ; 

rſonal cleanlineſs. The agility of both ſexes in me mares 
Beld. and in dancing to their favourite muſics is rearkabn 


ſubject, ſhould omit that remarkable mantology, Or * 
ey, which diſtinguiſhes the inhabitants of the Heb | 


4 4 


| j* 
® See Percy's Reliques of ancient Engliſh Poetry, ip 3. vob, 


* 


- SLES by BTOTEAND. wy 
ie reality of the iuſtandes of chis kind That: have Bead 
by ctedirable avithors, as to admit ull tnt aw beam ſaid up- 

£7, The adepts of the ſec ond ſighe pretend chat they in vs 
relations, or rather preſentations, either redſnobTypiealty, 
hin before their eyes, of certain events that are to happen 
paß, of 24 Or 22 Lad not, hoWevery from the 

cation, oblerve thut any two 6f Theſe wdeptt agree as tb 

«rs and forms of thoſe revelations, or that — eve 5 
od for interpreting their — — Te tr 

» be, that thoſe iſtanders, 3 in May 

hire vilonary ideas, and over - heart chetr >Ithaginations, 

e pceſenited with thoſe phamtaſitys,' which they miftabr for 

Umanfteſtations, They bar — in to prop heey and it 

abſurd to ſuppoſe, that umidſt many thoüfhndt of predic- 
due did not happen to be Aililled;; and theſe Being well uc- 

1 C6 4idh to che Wet. 
brned men have been of bpimton, chat the Hebrides being 

u Weſterly iſlands where the Celts ſettled, their 1 
ain there in its greateſt purity, This opitmen, though very 
te, has failed in experience. Many Celtic words, it 4s true, 

i ufoihs, are there found; but à vaſt intercburſe which 
rides had with the Danes, the Nortvegians, and ether Nortfi- 
pe, whoſe language is thized With the Sela vonſun aud Teu- 
pick laſt has no affinity with the Celtic, has renllered their 
compound; fo n in no degret td the pu- 
the Celtic, commonly called Erſe, which was Pokbn by their 

in Lochaber, and che oppofite ebaſts f Seottand, the 


d deſcendents of the Celts, Amuug wholn their lang iage 
more United, | p 13-96 nnn 
eligion profeſſed in the Hebrides, is chieſty p in, As 
ſed in the church of Scotland: bat popery and ignorante 
al amor g ſome of the iſlaniders, hilt ſuper ſeit bus pructices 


* 
* 


Moms ſcem to be Almoſt grafted in their nature. 3 


Miner, and Cuarrier.] Though it is hot in thefowtr of na- 
ſtioophy to accbunt for the Feafon, yet it is certaim thut the 
| of the Northern and Weſtern iſlands belonging to Scothdd, 
red an amazing alteration. It is evident to the eye-Agkt, 
Wy of thoſe iſlands have been the habitations of the Druids, 
Etoples are ſtill viſible in moſt of them; and thoſe tetmples 
roumded by groves, though little br hb tiber no. grows 
Wghbourhobd. The ſtütps of former trets, however, ate 
we, as are many veſtiges of grundeur, even finee the àdmiſ- 
the Cbriſtian religion; which prV the detrenHe of the riches, 
d pbptilation, of the inhabitants. Experience daily thews, 
de {bil of the Northern and Weſtern illands dll of fate were 
d told, and uncomfbrtable, it was owing to their want bf cul- 
fr lach ſpots of them as 'ate now cultiyated, produce corn, 
23, and garden ſtuff, more than ſufficient r the inhabitants, 
ers are now brought to maturtty. Tin, lend, and 
ner; marl, ſlate, freeſtone, and even quarries bf marbſe, 
* found vpon thoſe iflands. They are not deflirite of fit 


- 
„ 


* > \ T 5 . FA 
4 ; o * 


| ISLES '6r SCOTLAND _ 
water; and lakes and rivulets that adound with gust 


TY the ſame time it mult be owned, that the preſent face 9 A 
ate, and ented with trees, excepting a few that prod 
ed in gardens. | ANN v0 {1 OB MEE wn tl 
— tes nab ME: 
iſlands. The reader can eaſily ſuppoſe, that their ſtaple ee - 
ties conſiſt of ſiſh, eſpecially herrings, which are the belt in th con 
and, when properly cured, are equal even 1 ir 


diſcovered here ; only it is thought. that they contain a4 
Falcon or hawk, of a more noble and decile nature than 
are to be found elſewhere. The Shetland iſles are famous for 
breed of horſes, which are incredibly active, ng, and 
and frequently ſeen in the ſtreets of London,  yoked to dhe 
. earriages of the curious or wealthy. Phe coalts of thoſe illat 
within theſe twenty years, ſeemed, however, do have been 
not for the inhabitants, but. for rangers, - The latter ft 
former with wines, —— liquors, ſpice, and Juxuries of : 
for their native commodities, at the gain of above. 100 | 
But it is to be hoped that this pernicious tralke now dra 
end. In the Shetland iſles 3000 buſſes have been known t0 
ployed in one year by the Dutch in the herring Riley, bed 
fitted out by the Humburghers, anc, and other 


. Rarities and Curioſities, N and Artificial.] Thoſe ilk 
hibit many pregnant in their churches, che veliges 
forts, and other buildings both ſacred and civil, of what 11 
ready obſerved, that they were formerly more populous i 
are now, The uſe and conſtruction of ſome of Wels works 
eaſily accounted for at preſent. . In a y valley. bela 
Hoy, one of the Weſtern iſlands, is a kind of a deranagh 
. of a ſtone called a dwarf-ſtone, thirty-fix feet Jong, eigen 
and nine thick; in which is a ſquare hole, about en Pen 
an entrance, with a ſtone of the ſame. ſize for à goons Wi 
entrance is the reſemblance of a bed, with a pille ent de 

ſtone, big enough for two men to e on the ww 
couch, and in the middle a hearth with a hole eng da © 


: £ 4 


. 


ISLES ox SCOTLAND, „% 


1 vould be endleſs to recount the various veſliges of the 

i temples remaining in thoſe iſlands, ſome of which have re- 

igious labour, and are ſtupendous erections, of the ſame 
the famous Stonehenge near Saliſbury, which 1 ſhall have 
o deſcribe : others ſeem to de memorials of particular” per- 
Uadions, conſiſting of one large ſtone ſtanding upright ; ſome 
we been ſculptured, and others have ſerved as ſepulchres, 
compoſed of ſtones cemented together. Barrows, as they 
In England, are frequent in thoſe iſlands; and the monu- 
#Daniſh and Norwegian fortifications might employ an abler 

to deſcribe. The gigantic bones found in many burial 
re, give room to believe, that the former inhabitants were 
der lie than the preſent. It is likewiſe probable, from 
ent remains, particularly catacombs, and nine ſilver fibulz 
, found at Stennis, one of the Orkneys, that the Romans 
{| acquainted with thoſe parts. 
athedral of Kirkwall, the capital of the Orkneys, is a fine 
hlding, dedicated to St Magnus, but now converted into 
church. Its roof is ſupported by fourteen pillars on each 
ad its ſteeple, in which is a good ring of bells, by four large 
The three gates of the church are chequered with red and 
wliſhed ſtones, emboſſed, and elegantly flowered. . - -- 
Bebrides are ſtill more diſtinguiſhed than the Orkney or Shet- 
x for their remains of antiquity ; and it would far exceed the 
allotted to this head, were we even to mention every noted 
it found upon them, dedicated to civil, religious, or war- 
ples. We cannot, however, avoid taking particular no- 
tle celebrated iſle of Jona, called St Columb-Kill. We ſhall 
* into the hiſtory or origin of the religious ereQians upon 
I it is ſufficient to ſay, that it ſeems. to have ſerved as a 
for St Columba, and other holy men of learning, while 
England, and Scotland, were deſolated by barbariſm. It 
that the Northern Pagans often landed here, and paid no 
@ the ſanctity of the place. The church of St Mary, which 
8 the form of a cathedral, is a beautiful fabric. It contains 
ies of ſome Scots, Iriſh, and Norwegian kings, with ſome 
Wcriptions, The tomb of Columba, who lyes buried here, 
bed. The ſteeple is large, the cupola 21 feet ſquare, the 
ud windows are curiouſly carved, and the altar is of the fineſt 
lunumerable are the inſcriptions of ancient cuſtoms and 
is that are diſcernible upon this iſland, and give counte- 
the well-known obſervation, that when learning was extin& 


"Y of Europe, it found a refuge in Scotland, or rather 
5. 


Enn 


28 


* 


NF 


lon Und, belonging to Scotland, contain Ikewiſe ſome natural 
= © peculiar to themſelves ; the phaſeoli, or Molucca beans, 
* i found in the Orkneys, driven, as ts ſuppoſed, from the 


by the Weſterly winds, which often force aſhore many 
1 - and marine productions, highly eſteemed by natural- 

ae pariſh of Harn, a large piece of Rag's horn, was found 
71 the earth, by the inhabitants, who were digging for 


i "8 | marl; 


=» 


2 


46 5 8 e « 0 . T_ J. — A 55 N 5 
| mar] ;- and. certain bituminous effluvia produce furp , 
mena, which the natives believe to be ſupernatyral, © © 


| Learning, learned Men, ; 2 OS 8 : 
, and Hiſtory, © | reden. ; 


: 2 
1 


8 O r aan 


2 An 


ExTERNT AD SITUATION, 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 3002 54 and 59 North latitt 
Breadth oo re j 1 and 6 Welt longit 


Name.] TIN can be little doubt that the Scots 
| the original inhabitants of this kingdom, w 
invaded about the beginning of the fourth century, and ha 
quered the Pits, the territories of both were called 
and that the word Scot, is no other than a corruption 0 
or Scythian ; being originally from that immenſe-countr 
Scythia by the ancients. It is termed by the Italians, Sc 
the Spaniards, Eſcotia ; by the Freneh, Eſcofle ; by the 5 
mans, and Englith, Scotland. | 


Boundaries. } Scotland, which contains an area of 27,7 
is bounded on the North, Eaſt, and Weſt, by the Deuce: 
German, and Iriſh ſeas, or more properly, the Atlantic oc 
and on the South by England, for which, however, it has 
ral boundary, if we except the Solway- Firth near Carli 
Weſt ; and the mouth of the Tweed at Berwick, on the 
eiently, in the time of the Komans, it extended much fu 
ing bounded by a wall, raiſed by that people, between News 
Carliſle ; and under the Norman kings of England, it incl 
three Northern counties of Northumberland, Weltmor| 
Cumberland. | 


Diviſions and Subdiviſions ] Scotland is divided inte the 
South of the Firth of Forth ; the capital. of which, and « 
kingdom, is Edinburgh ; and thoſe to the North of the f 
where the chief town is Aberdeen, This was the ancient 
diviſion ; but ſome modern writers, with leſs geographie 
have divided into Highlands and Lowlands, on account 0 
ent habits, manners, and cuſtoms of the inhabitants of -m 

Eighteen counties, or ſhires, are allotted to the Sout! | w 
and 15 to the Northern; and thoſe counties are ſubdinide 


* 


8,C,,0 T L. AN. P. 41 


 lvarics, and Pailiwicks, according to the ancient tenures 


s of the landholders. 


Sherifdoms and hs Chief Towns. 
ſubdiviſions, | 
| E . INBURSG H, 
* | lat. 56. W.lon. 3. 
rgb — Mid-Lothian - 855 Muſſelburg, Leith, 
a and Dalkeith. 

| , Dunbar, Haddington 
Eaft-Lothian — 3 andNorth- Berwick. 


The Merches TP 
Tecderdale * ? Duns, and Lauder. 


Tiviotdale, Lidſdale, ? Ln Kelſo, and 


| ce 


Eſkdale and Euſdale Melroſs. 


Ettrick Foreſt — Selkirk. 
Tweedale — PeSles. 


„ 

1 
5 2 Glaſgow, N. lat. 55.52. 
= 

- 2 

* 


| W. lon, 4-5. Ha- 
Clydſdale —— , milton, Lanerk, & 
Rutherglen. 


Nithſdale, Annandale Dumfries, Annand. 


Wigtown, Stanraer, & 
Galloway, Weſt Part : 3 1 : 


Galloway, Eaſt Part : { Kirkcudbright. 


Kyle, Carrick, and 


Cunningham — arton, and Saltcots 
abarton Lenox — — Dumbarton 


Rothſay. 
and Bute, Arran y 
* ; 8 3 9 N. lat. 58. 40 
Seat ST 


and Thurſo. 
Renfrew, Paiſley,Gree- 


1 P ort - Glaſ 


Stirling Scivling and Falkirk. 
Liolithgow, Bur- 
roughſtonneſs, and 


Wthpow Juv Lothian — 
Queensferry. 
Argyle, Cowal, Knap: ? 
dale, Kintire, we) | 
Lorn, with part © 
- Inverary, Dunſtaffnag, 
the Weſtern IIIles, 8 


particularly Iſla, 
Jura, Mull, Wiſt, | Cambletown, 
| 


| Terif, Col, and Liſ- 
9 more CN CG K 


3 L 3 19. Perth 


* en the north ſide of the Tweed, belonged formerly to Scotland, and 
2 county in that kingdom; but it is now formed intoa town and coun» 


ur political ſenſe diſtinct from England and Scotland, having its own 


win, Maybole, Stew- 


OO” — — 
FAKAUAEVP„̃²˙˙-ëꝗL.. ͥͤs ͤ̃Äͤ—b ¼ůmu—̃̃ . 8ßꝙꝗèG — 


—ä — ———_—_— — 


— -—— —————_— Wes. 


m. — ͥ — ——5 — mans 
— — — — 


—— ——— —— we IA * 
Rs : . C 


* | 4 , Sh 


| 452 8 CE: o =”: L 4 A NC D. 

Shires. _ Sheriffdoms and other 7 5 "Let To il, 

| ſubdiviſions. ' | " 

Perth, Athol, Gowry, lr, 

| | a Beoadalbig, Mon- £ "We rth, coi 

19. Perth — teith, Strathern, bas Bla T 
| Glenſhield, and 

; 8 Raynork— 8 

E acmanan & Do Claw 

21. Kinroſs 4 Lig Part 1 jon Allowayand} d | 

ein Andrews, 0 1 

| - Innerkythe | 

22. Fife — Fife ——— " ra ww Aland 

| | ermlin, Dy 

> = ſtruther aud P 

| | Cour, K 

X a N | " Montroſe, Forf L | 

23. For far — Forfar, Angus _— £3 dee, Arbrot q 

| ; 75 ervie, Stonh | 

24. Kincardine - $1 Kinkardin, 2 


and Strathbogie — Kintore, Is 
Strathb , pie, 


— 


" Bamff, Strathdovern, 
26. Banff — Boyne, Euzy, Bal- 


Merns — — — 

Old Aberdeen, 
l, ener 

ew Aberde 

25. Aberdeen — Mar, Buchan, Garioch J erfburgh,Pe in 
J 
veny, Strathawin, 
and Part of Bucan 
27.7 Elgin * Murray andStrathſpey 


28. Nairne and C Weſtern Part of 4 | 


29. Cromartie ray and Cromartie. 


teeny Inverneſs, In 1 

Harris, Badenoc ple 

30. Inverneſs OTH Lochaber, & Glen- _ Aug Dur 

: moriſon — U the 
Eaſterand Weſter Roſs, 

Iſle of Lewis, Loch- | | _ hers, 

broom, Lochcarran, Taine, Ding x Bo 

31. Roſs — 1 Ardmeanach, Red- 4 Fortroſe, tear 

| caltle, Ferrintoſh, lie, and Ne vir 

Strathpeffer, oo, | j U 

| Ferrindonale o mat 

Strathnaver and Su- and L „ 

32. Sutherland cherland — $ { Serathy A 


* Kirkwall, Na 
[1 on will Tt 41 1 

es 0 rxney owa), * 

33. Orkney — Shetland — | Meridian 


don N. l. 
* - 


ki 
A. 


OS SH T PE av 
11, thirty-three ſhires, which chuſe thirty repreſentatives to ſit 
lament of Great - Britain; Bute and Cathnefs chuſing al- 

5, as do Nairne and Cromartie, and Clacmannan and Kinroſs. 


The royal Boroughs which chuſe repreſentatives are, 
n — — II Crail, Kilrenny, Anſtruther) 


| Wick, _ - Eaſt and Weſt, and Pu- - 1 
acm wall, and Tayne tea veem 5 
nd} e laverneſs, Nairne, 11 Dyſer, Kirkaldy, King-? , . 
V, C Forres — : horn, and Brunt Ifland— 8 
Ki Callen, Bamff, In- *. Innerkythen, Dumfermlin, 
the 7, and Kintore 5 Queensferry, Culroſs, and Sterling 
and 1 , Glaſcow, Renfrew, Ruther- b 
by. brothe,and Brechin glen, and Dumbarton 
1 ; | Haddington, Dunbar, North) 
aud St. Andrews | Berwick, Lawder, and 1 
dorf L Peebles, Linlith- Jedburgh — 
bro. ind Lanerk — | Wigrown, New Galloway, 
nes, Sanquehar, An- Stranrawer,and Whitehorn 
ond Lochmaban, and 1 | Air,Irwin, OY 1 
an Kudbright — beltown, and Inverary 
* utain;.] The chief mountains of Scotland are the Grampian 


ains, which run from Eaſt to Weſt, from near Aberdeen to 
kin Argyleſhire, almoſt the whole breadth of the kingdom, 
$ for the battle fought near them, between the Romans and 
cient Scots, or Caledonians, under the conduct of Galgacus. 
tmarkable chain of mountains are thoſe of Lammermoor, 
brug from the Eaſtern coaſt in the Merſe a great way Welt. 
I Cy 0 theſe are Pentland hills, which run through Lothian, and 
& mountains of Tweedale; and theſe again are joined by o- 
"ich traverſe the whole breadth of Scotland. 

remarkable mountains are thoſe called Chiviot, or Tiviot 
0 the borders of England, Drumbender-law and North Ber- 
wn, both in Eaſt-Lothian ; Arthur's Seat in Mid- Lothian, 
apple, in Weſt-Lothian; Tentock, in Clydeſdale ; Binmore, 
gu de; the Ochel mountains, and Largo-law, in Fife; in An- 
Vurdee-law, and part of the Grampians; in Caithneſs, Ord ; 
ihe Orkney iſlands, the mountains of Hoy. 


] The chief rivers are Forth, Clyde, and Tay. Forth was 

Dotodria anciently, and is the largeſt river in Scotland; it 

” wm the bottom of Lomon hill, and runs from Weſt to Eaſt 
wing itſelf into the Frith of Forth. 

the next largeſt river, iſſues out of Loch Tay, in Brodalbin, 

Wing South Eaſt, falls into the ſea at Dundee. 


ad D . the next molt conſiderable river, iſſues from a lake of the 

Na une, 2 running from South-Weſt to North-Eaſt, falls into 
un lea. 

8743 


de 5 * . 
mers Don and Dee run from Weſt to Eaſt, and fail into the 
ufa near Aberdeen. | 


lat: The 


| The river Clyde runs generally ſrom Eaſt to W 

and Glaſgow, and falls into the Irifh fea ; from 2 the 

eſt foreign trafic is carried on to America, and other gil 

tries. | 
The rivers Murray, Cromarty, and Dornock, riſe from 

lakes of the ſame name in the North of Scotland, and runs; 

Welt to Eaſt, diſcharge themſelves into the German fea, 


Lakes.] The lakes or lochs of moſt note are thoſe of 14 
Loch · neſs, and Loch-leven, from whence iſſue rivers of theſ 
from Loch · lomondel iſſued the river Domond, and from 1 
the river Jern. It is obſerved, that the lochs Tay, Neſs, at 
never freeze ; and there is a lake in Shaglaſh, which continue 
all the Summer. | 


Air.] From the Northerly ſituation, and the mountainou 
of this country, the air is very cold, but much colder on the 
tains or highlands, which are covered with ſnow great pa 

ear, than in the vallies, and much colder in the North th 
th. But if the air be colder in Scotland than in Engl 
natives comfort themſelves with an opinion, that it is cle 
more healthful, being purified by frequent winds and florms 
contribute, they imagine, to the brightneſs of their parts as 
health. They alſo imagine they reſemble the French in tl 
city and enterpriſing genius. 


- Farefts.] The face of Scotland, even where it is moſt uni 
preſents us with the moſt uncontrovertible evidences of its 
been formerly over-run with timber. The deepeſt moſſes, 
raſſes, contain large logs of wood; and their waters being 
nated with turpentine have a preſerving quality, as appes 

human bodies which have been diſcovered in thoſe moſes 
Sylva Caledonia, or Caledonian foreſt, the remains of which & oy 
thonght to be Etrick wood, in the South of Scotland, fa 
antiquity for its being the harbour of the Caledonian wild iris: 
but ſach an animal is not now to be ſeen in Scotland. Several: 
however, ſtill remain in that country; and many attempt 
been made for reducing them into charcoal, for the uſe of f 
and founderies ; but lying at a great diſtance from water-c 
though the work Aden perfectly in the execution, tht 
fonnd impracticable to be continued. Fir- trees grow in 551 
fection almoſt all over Scotland, and form beautiful plan to 
The Scots oak is excellent in the Highlands, where ſome 
reach twenty or thirty miles in length, and four or five in 
but, through the inconveniency already mentioned, w. 
of much emolument to the proprietors. 


| Metals and Nlinerali.] Though Scotland does not at preſ Ws tn. 
of its gold mines, yet it is certain, that it contains ſuch, ot 
that Scotland afforded a conſiderable quantity of that met 
coinage. James V. and his father contracted with certain | 
tor working the mines of Crawford-moor z and it is ant 


FE Ear” Fit 457 
- when James V. married the French kin hter, a 
. diſhes, filled with coins of Scots Fold, We pre - 
» the gueſts by way of deſert. Some ſmall pieces of gold 
u found in thoſe parts waſhed down by the floods. It fre. 
m by the public records, that thoſe beautiful coins ſtruck 
v. called bonnet · pieces, were fabricated of gold found in 
s were other medals of the ſame metal. £ 
| landholders in Scotland derive a large profit from their 
Which are ſaid to be very rich, and to produce large 
I of filver z but we know of no filyer mines that are worked 
Some copper 'mines have been found near Edinburgh. 
me is here in great plenty, as is free-ſtone ; ſo that the houſes 
ner ſort are conſtrued of the moſt beautiful materials. 
: azuli is ſaid to be dug up in Lanerkſhire; allum-mines 
wn found in Bamffſhire; chryſtal, variegated pebbles, and 
raaſparent ſtones, which admit of the fineſt poliſh for ſeals, 
xd in many parts of Scotland; as are talc, flint, ſea-ſhells, 
cy, and fullers earth. The ſtones which the country peo- 
el. arrow- heads, and to which they aſſign a ſupernatural ori- 
uſe, were probably the flint-heads of arrows made uſe of by 
edonians and ancient Scots. No country produces greater 
of Iron-ore, both in mines and ſtones, than Scotland; of 
the proprietors now begin to taſte the ſweets, in their foun- 
nd other metalline manufaQuures, 


table and Animal productiont, by Sea and Land.] The foil of 
d in general produces wheat, rye, barley, oats, hemp, flax, 
pd paſturage. In the Southern counties, the fineſt garden 
puticularly apricots, nectarines, and peaches, fall little, if 
ſort of thoſe in England; and the fame may be ſaid of the 
L [ruits, Ihe uncultivated parts of the Highlands abound 
s kinds of ſalubrious and pleaſant taſted berries ; though it 
k owned, that many extenſive tracts are covered with a ſtrong 
The ſea-coſt produces the alga-marina, dulſe, or duliſh, a 
Noleſome nutritive weed, in great quantities, and other ma- 
nt. 
ilbes on the coaſts of Scotland are much the ſame with thoſe 
lands and counties already deſeribed; but the Scots have 
ed in their fiſheries as much as they have in their manufac- 
ud agriculture, for ſocieties have been formed, which have 
Witat branch of national wealth to a perfection that never was 
bonn in that country; and bids fair to emulate, if not to 
li Dutch themſelves, in curing, as well as catching, their 
armer times, the Scots ſeldom ventured to filh above a 
Gitance from the land, but they now ply in the deep waters 
Mud ſucceſsfully as any of their neighbours. 
* Ountry contains few or no kinds either of wild or domeſtic 
= are not common among their neighbours. The red- 
| the roe · buck are found in the Highlands, but their fleſh is 
able to Engliſh veniſon. Hares, and all other animals 
e are here plentiful, as are the grouſe and heath-cock, 


n woll delicious bird; here likewiſe are the capper _—_ 
an 


| * 
139 


1 

455 ;  & 4 T; ++ N. D. 
and the tarmacan, which is of the pheaſant kind 
are ſcarce even in the Highlands, and when Fra Rp 2 
The numbers of black cattle that cover the hills of Scoclang 
the Highlands, and ſheep that are fed upon the beautiful 
of Tweedale, and other parts of the South, are_alnolt in 
and formerly brought large ſums into the country; the bla 
eſpecially, which, when fattened on the Southern paſtures, 
oned ſuperior to Engliſh beef. | 

Formerly the kings of Scotland were at infinite pains to 8 
breed of the Scots horſes, by importing a larger and more of 
kind from the continent; but the truth is, notwithflanding 
care that was taken, it was found that the climate and foil 
land were unfavourable to that noble animal, for they dit 
both in ſize and ſpirit ; ſo that about the time of the noi 
horſes, natives of Scotland, were of much value; Great 
have been made of late to introduce the Engliſh and foreign 
and much pains, have been taken for providing them witl 
foods and management, but with what ſucceſs time alone 
cover, 


Population, inhabitants, Manners, and Cuſtoms.) The popu 
Scotland is generally fixed at about a million and a half of fou 
calculation reſts merely upon vague conjecture, as I know 6 
tempt that has been made to ſupport even its probability, 
form an eſtimate upon any known principle, tiſe inhabitants 
land are far more numerous. It is to be regretted, that ſom 
encouragement has not been given to bring this matter nea 
certainty, which might be done by the returns of the clergy fre 
ſeveral pariſhes. The only records at preſent that can be apy 
are thoſe of the army; and, by the beſt informations, they a 
number of ſoldiers furniſhed by Scotland in the late war, wt 
gan in 1755, to amount to 80, ooo men. We are, howeyer, 
ſerve, that above 60,000 of theſe were raiſed in the iſlands an 
lands, which form by far the leaſt populous part of Scotla 
belongs, therefore, to political calculation to compute whe 
population of Scotland does not exceed two millions and a1 
no country in the world, excluſive of the army, ſends abro 
of its inhabitants. If we conſult the moſt ancient and c 
hiſtories, - the population of Scotland, in the 13th century, mi 
been exceſſive, as it afforded ſo many thouſands to fall by ths 
of the Engliſh, without any ſenſible decreaſe of the inhabian 

The people of Scotland are generally raw-boned; and a 
a characteriſtical feature, that of high cheek bones, reigns 
faces; lean, but clean limbed, and can endure incredible 
Their adventuring ſpirit was chiefly owing to their laws of ſug 
which inveſted the elder brother as head of the family with t 
ritance, and left but a very ſcanty portion for the other ſon 
obliged the latter to ſeek their fortunes abroad, though 30 
have more aſſections for their native ſoil than the Scots bare 
neral. | 


It remains perhaps a queſtion, whether that lettered 2 
for which the Scots were noted by the neighbouring 1. 


% 


e Oo TU A ND. 457+ 
- tice to their country, while it was of the utmoſt ſervice 
{its natives. Their literature, however flight, rendered 
«table and agreeable among foreigners ; but at the ſame 
Linined their nation of that order of men, who are the beſt 
forming and executing the great plans of commerce and 
for the public emolument. 1 * 
d to gentlemen who live at home, upon eſtates of 300 l. 
ud upwards, they differ little or nothing, in their manners, 
ling, fromtheir Engliſh neighbours of the like ſortunes. 
have their peculiarities; their ideas are confined ; 
ple can conform their tempers better than they do to their 
They are taught from their infancy to bridle their paſſions, 
fbmiſſively to their ſuperiors, and live within the bounds 
wt rigid economy. Hence they ſave their money and their 
Joes, and few inſtances of murder, 'penjury, robbery, and 
ocious vices occur at preſent in Scotland, They ſeldom en- 
j upon any daring enterpriſe ; but when they act in concert, 
n, ſagacity and reſolution, with which they carry on any 
undertaking, is not to be paralleled z and their fidelity to 
er, under the ſtrongeſt temptations, ariſing from their po- 
$ fill more extraordinary. Their mobs are managed with 
aution of conſpiracies, witneſs that which put Porteus to 
1735, in open defiance of law and government, and in 
of 20,000 people; and, tho' the agents were well known, 
of them tried, with a reward of 5001. annexed to their 
, yet no evidence could be found ſufficient to bring them 
ent. The fidelity of the Highlanders, of both ſexes, un- 
greater temptation, to the young Pretender, after his de · 
Calloden, could ſcarcely be believed were it net well atteſted. 
ilect a fondneſs for the memory and language of their fore- 
beyond, perhaps, any people in the world; but this attach- 
dom or never carried into any thing that is indecent or 
, though they retain it abroad as well as at home. They 
of the ancient Scots diſhes, ſuch as the hoggice, the ſheep's- 
ed, the fiſh in ſauce, the chicken broth, hotch-potch, and 
wllops, Theſe diſhes, in their original drefling, were ſa- 
ud nutritive for keen appetites ; but the modern improve 
at have been made in the Scots cookery, have rendered 
reable to the moſt delicate palates. The common uſe of 
undoubtedly, gave a hardneſs to the features of the vulgar of 
its, beſides ſome other diſagreeable conſequences it was at- 
iid; but theſe unfavourable charaQeriftics will wear out by 
Kition of wheaten bread, which now abounds in Scotland. 
fare uſe of oatmeal accounts for the common obſervation, 
e laces of the lower women in Scotland are commonly very 
Mt it was owned at the ſame time, that among the higher 
es, beauty was found in its utmoſt perfection. The 
W deen remarked of a neighbouring nation. | 
Wabitants of thoſe parts of Scotland, who live chiefly by 
hare natural vein for poetry ; and the beautiful ſimplicity 
Wr tuges is reliſhed by all true judges of nature. Love is 
tte ſubje, and many of the airs have-been brought * 


A 


ad. s CU QO TT Ea» 
the Engliſh Rage wich variations, under new | 
diſadvantage, that — rendered more ——— 
of muſic, they are y altered for the worſe, being | 
that original ſimplicity, which howgver irregular, /is their 
ſential characteriſtic, which is ſo agreeable to the ear, and 
wers over the human breaſt. Thoſe of. à mort lively 
rain had better fortune, being introduced into the army 
native dreſs, by the fifes, an inſtrument for which they arg 
ably well ſuited, It has been rediculouſly ſuppoſed that R; 
unhappy. Italian ſecretary of Mary queen of - Scats,-refo 
Scots muſic. This is a falſhood invented by his.countrymer 
to the Scots. Their fineſt tunes exiſted long before Rinzio's 
in their church muſic ; nor dogs it appear ha Rizzio,. who 
tirely employed by his miſtreſs in foreign diſpatches, ever e 
an air during the ſhort time be lived in geotland ; but, wi 
no other evidences to confute this report, the original cha 
the muſic itſelf is ſufficient. . un nary n 
The lower people in Scotland are not ſo much-accyftom 
Engliſh are to clubs, dinners, and other convivial entertai 
but when they partake of them, for that very reaſon, they 
enjoy them more completely. One inſtitution there is, at on 
and charitable, and that is, the contributions raiſed for e 
the weddings of people of an inferior rank 3- but th 
pany conſiſts promiſcuouſly of the high ant the low, the et 
ment is as decent as it is jovial, Each gueſt pays accotdit 
inclination or ability, but ſeldom under a ſhiling a head, fc 
they have a wedding dinner and dancing. When the part 
n to be ſervants in reſpectable families, the contributiof 
liberal, that they often eſtabliſh the young couple in the we 
The common people of Scotland retain the folemn decent 
of their anceſtors at burials. When a relation dies in a te 
pariſh beadle is ſent round with a paſſing: bell ; but he ſtop 
tain places, and with a {low melancholy tone, announces ti 
of the party deceaſed, and the time of his interment, to 
invites all his fellow countrymen. At the hour appointed, if 
ceaſed was beloved in the place, vaſt numbers attend. The 
fion is ſometimes preceded by the magiſtrates and their ofhe 
the deceaſed is carried in his coffin, covered by a velvety 
chair-poles, to the grave, where it is interred without an 
ceremony than the neareſt relation thanking the company | 
attendance. The funerals of the nobility and gentry are pe 
in much the ſame manner as in England, but without 
ſervice. The Highland funerals were y preceded 
pipes, which played certain dirges, called coronachs, and 
companied by the voices of the attendants of both ſexes. 
Dancing is a favourite amuſement of this country, but! 
gard is paid to art or graceſulneſs; the whole'confilts in a5 
in keeping time to their own tunes, which they de with gr 
neſs. One of the peculiar diverſions practiſed by the gent 
the Golf, which requires an equal degree of art and ren 
played by a bat and a ball; the latter is ſmaller and — 
cricket ball; the bat is of a taper conſtructian, till | nm 


= 
G 
W 
= 


% 


Lparty follows his an open 
: feweſt ſtrokes into a hole, wins the oe The diver- 
aring is likewiſe peculiar to the Scots. It is performed up- 
aid large flat ſtones, often from 20 to 200 pounds weight 
ich they hurl from a common Rand; to- a mark at a certain 
and whoever is neareſt the mark is the victor. Theſe two 
alled the ſtanding Summer and Winter diverſions of Scot- 
ſhe natives are expert at all the other diverſions common in 
the cricket excepted, of which they have no notion; the 
n look upon it as too athletic and mechanical. 


ve and Dreſe.) Theſe two articles are placed under the 
ad, becauſe they had formerly an intimate relation to each 
kth of them being evidently Celtie. The Highland plaid is 
d of a woolen (tuff, ſometimes very fine, called 7artan. This 
hits of various colours, forming ſtripes which croſs each o- 
unt angles; and the natives value themſelves upon the ju- 
amangement, or what they call ſets, of thoſe ſtripes and co- 
wich where ſkilfully managed, produce a wonderfully plea- 
tt to the eye. Above the ſhirt, the Highlanders wear 2 
A of the ſame compoſition with the plaid, which commonly 
of twelve yards in width, and which they throw over the 
into very near the form of 'a Roman toga, as repreſented 
ett ſtatues : ſometimes it is faſtened round the middle with 2 
belt, ſo that part of the plaid hangs down before and be - 
ſe a petticoat, and ſupplies the want of breeches. This they 
uy dreſſed in a phelig, but which the Lowlanders called a kilt, 
w doubt the ſame word with Celt. Sometimes they wear a 
# petticoat of the ſame variegated Ruff, buckled round the 
nd this they term the philibeg, which ſeems to be of Mileſian 
Wn, Their ſtockings were likewiſe of tartan, tied below the 
tl! tartan garters formed into taſſels. The poorer people 
on their feet, brogues made of untanned or undreſſed lea- 
ir their heads a blue flap cap is uſed, called a bonnet, of a 
ur woolen mnnufacture. From the belt of the philibeg hun 
their knives, and a dagger, which they called a dirk, = 
L piſtol, ſometimes of fine workmanſhip, and curiouſly inlaid 
iur. The introduction of the broad ſword of Andrea Fer- 
ipaniard (which was always part of the Highland dreſs) 
ode no earlier than the reign of James III. who invited that 
* vorkman to Scotland. A large leathern purſe, richly a- 
mth filver, hanging before them, was always part of a High- 
hein s dreſs. 56 mf, 2519 
it of the Highland women conſifted of a pettieoat and jer- 
trait ſleeves, trimmed or not trimmed according to the 
"the wearer: over this they wore à plaid, which they ei- 
2 under their chins with the hand, or faſtened with a 
« particular faſhion. On the head they wore a kerchief of 
| 3 X 2 jo : fine 


4 een 
ine linen of different forms. The woman's plaid has berg 
diſuſed in Scotland by the ladies, who wore it in a graceful 
the drapery falling towards the feet in large folds, A cu 
tuoſo may find a ſtrong reſemblance between the viriepated 
briated draperies of the ancients, and thoſe of the ue 
were unqueſtionably of Celtic original) as they are to be 
monuments of antiquity« - 2 Strat 1 
The attachment of the Highlanders to this dreſs, rend 
bond of union, which often proved dangerous to the gt 
Many efforts had been made by the legiſlature, after the rell 
1715, to diſarm them, and oblige them to conform 16+ 
country dreſſes, The diſarming ſcheme was the moſt ſuect 
when the rebellion in 1745 broke out, the common pe 
ſcarcely any other arms than thoſe. which they took from t 
— Their overthrow at Culloden, rendered it no diffi 
ter for the legiſlature to ſorte them into a total change of th 
Its conveniency, however, for the purpoſes of the 24 is 
that ſome of the Highland regiments ſtill retain it. Even 
mon people have of late reſumed the uſe of it; and for its 
and diſincumbrance, many of the Highland gentlemen wear 
Summer time. „ e UF L261; eee 
The dreſs of the higher and middling ranks in the Low- 
differ little or nothing from the Engliſh ; but many of the g 
till retain the bonnet, for. the cheapneſs and lightneſs of 0 
The dreſs of the women of all ranks are much the ſame 
kingdoms. 151 | WT 
| e language of the Highlanders, eſpecially towards 
and Badenoch, is radically Celtic. The Engliſh ſpoken by ti 
notwithſtanding its provincial articulations, which are as 
there as in the more Southern counties, is written in the fan 
ner in both kingdoms. At preſent, the pronunciation of a 
does not differ ſo much from a Londoner, as that of a 
does from an inhabitant of Somerſetſhire, and ſome parts « 
_ ceſterſhire. ff | 


Puniſbmenti.] Theſe are pretty much the fame in Scotia 

England, only that of beheading is performed by an inſtrun 
led the Maiden; the model of which, it is well known, was 
ſrom Hallifax in England to Scotland, by the regent earl of 
and it-was hanſeHed by his own execution. 1 


Religion.] Ancient Scottiſh hiſtorians, Bede, and other 
generally agree that Chriſtianity, was firſt taught in Scotland 
of the diſciples of St John the apoſtle, who fled to this Norts 
ner to avoid the perſecution of Domitian, the Roman em 
it was not publicly profeſſed till the beginning of the third 
when a prince, whom Scots hiſtorians call Donald the 
queen, and ſeveral of his nobles, were ſolemnly baptiſed ' 
further confirmed by emigrations from South Britain, du 
perſecutions of Aurelius and Diocleſian, hen it became 5 
religion of the country, under the management of a ſociety" 
ed aud pious men, named Culdees, whoſe principal feat * | 
22 411 


% 


ent | 
eful 
SUE 
Fe: 


e ſe 


*% 


JE CoA TT U &A XN ÞB 46s 
« Theſe Culdees, though they appointed overſeers for the 
ent of the church of Rome, Chriſtianity ap 
n taught, planted, and finally. confirmed as a ngtional 
there it flouriſhed in its native ſimplicity, till the arrival 
a prieſt ſent by the biſhop of Rome in the fifth century, 
ul means to introduce the modes and ceremonies of the Ro- 
arch, which at laſt prevailed, and Scotland became involved 
krkneſs which for many ages-overſpread Europe; though 
gendenee upon the pope was very ſender, when compared 
tld ſubjection of many other nations. | 90 
(uldees, however, long retained their original manners, 
mined a diſtin order, notwithſtanding the oppreſſion of the 
dergy, ſo late as the age of Robert Bruce, in the 14th-cen> 
nen they diſappeared. But it is worthy of ebſervation, that 
ation to popery in this ifland, —_— it ceaſed in Scotland 
& ertinction of the Culdees, was in ſame age revived in 
by John Wicklifſe, a man of parts and learning, who'was 
runner, in the work of reformation to John Huſs, and Je- 
of Prague, as the latter were to Martin Luther, and John. 
k But though the doctrines of Wickliffe were nearly the ſame 
hoſe propagated by the reformers in the 16th century, and 
peemed ſtrongly diſpoſed to receive them, affairs were not yet 
we for this great revolution; and the — blow to popery 


wand, was reſerved to the age of Henry VIII. 


after that important event took place in England, when 
kg, arts, and ſciences, began to revive in Europe, the abfurdi- 
the church of Rome, as well as the profligate lives of her 
6d not eſcape the notice of a free and inquiring people, and 
to the reformation in Scotland; which began in the reign 
Ks V. made great progreſs under that of his daughter Mary, 
bt length compleated through the preaching of John Knox, 
ud adopted the doctrine of Cafyin, and was become the apo- 
Katland, It was natural for his brethren to imagine, that 
de abolition of the Roman Catholic religion, they were to 
u the revenues of that clergy. The great nobility, who 

ed out theſe poſſeſſions for themſelves, did not at firſt 
e this notion; but no ſooner had Knox ſucceeded in his 
* which, through the fury of the mob, deſtroyed ſome of the 
cleſiaſſical buildings in the world, than the parliament, or 


the nobility, monopolized all the church livings, and mot 


uy left the reforming clergy to live almoſt in a ſtate of 


FJ; nor could all their efforts produce any ſtruggle in their 


wbility and great landholders, left the doctrine and diſciplice 
_ to be modeiled by the preachers, and they were con- 
i parliament. Succeeding times rendered the Preſbyterian 
"alt importance to the ſtate; and their revenues have been 
by ended, that though no ſtipend there exceeds 1501. a-year, 
tort of 601. and none of 50 l. If the preſent expenſive 
ag continues in Scotland, the eſtabliſhed clergy will have 


1 
uaſwerable reaſons to urge for the increaſe of their revenues. 


The 


462 S8 O O r L AN », I 
Tha bounds of this work do not admit of entering at 1; 
the doctrinal and œconomical part of the church 14 1. 
ſufficient-to ſay, that its firſt principle is a parity. of ecclef 
thority among all its preſbyters; that it agrees in its cenſi 
the reformed churches abroad in the chief heads of vpn 
| papery; bot that it is modelled principally uſter the Cal 
plan eſtabliſhed at Geneva. This eſtabliſhment, at varions 
proved. ſo tyranuical over the laity, by having the pom 
greater or Jefler ex communication, which were attended þ 
feiture of eſlate, and ſometimes of life, that che kirk fel 
other bodies, have been abridged of all their dangerous po 
the laity, who are extremely jealous of their being revived 
that relic of popery, the obliging fornicators of ſexes t 
on what they call a repenting- ſtool, in che church, and in 
of the congregation, begins to wear out; it having been fo 
the Scots women, on acconnt of that penance, were the 
murderers of infants in the world. In ſhort, the power of 
clergy is at preſent very moderate, or at leaſt very moderat 
ciſed ; nor are they accountable for the extravagancies of t 
deceſſors. They have been, ever fince the revolution, fir 
rents to civil liberty, and the houſe of Hanover; and added 
markable intrepidity during the rebellion-in 745. They d 
out clerical robes ; but ſome of them appear in the pulpit i 
after the Geneva form, and bands. They make no uſe of f 
in worſhip, but are not prohit:ted that of the Lord's praye 
rents of the bilbops, fince the abolition of -epiſcopacy, are 
the king, who commonly appropriates them to pious pur 
thouſand pounds a-year is always ſent by his majeſty for ill 
the proteſtant ſchools erected by act of parliament in North 
and the Weſtern iſles ; and the Scots clergy, of late, have 
out funds for the ſupport of their widows and orphans, I 
ber of pariſhes in Scotland are 890, whereof 3 are collegiate 
es, that is, where the cure is ſerved by more than ane mit 
The higheſt eccleſiaſtical authority in Scotland is the ge 
ſembly, which we may call the eccleſiaſtical parhament o 
It conſiſts of commiſſioners, ſome of which are laymen, 
title of ruling elders, from preſbyteries, royal burghs, and 
ties. A preſbytery, conſiſting of under twelve minillers, | 
miniſters and one ruling elder; if it contains between! 
miniſters, it ſends three, and one ruling elder; if it cont 
tw een 18 and 24 miniſters, it ſends four miniſters and t 
elders ; but if the preſbytery has 24 miniſters, it ſends hve 
and two ruling elders. Every royal burgh ſends one ruf 
and Edinburgh two; whoſe election mult be atteſted by ti 
tive kirk · ſeſſions of their own burghs. Every univerlity 
commiſſioner, uſually a miniſter of their own body. The 
fioners are choſen yearly, ſix weeks before the meeti of 
bly. The ruling elders are often of the firſt quality af the 
The king preſides by his commiſſioner (who is alwajs 
man) in this aſſembly, which meets once a year? but be 
voice in their deliberations. The order of their proceeding 
lar, though the number of members oſten create a 


l af 


8: c On Ti LT AN De | tp 


ar, who is choſen by them to be as it were ſpeaker of 
© has not ſufficient authority to prevent. Appeals are 
ra all the other eccleſiaſtical courts in;$cotland! to the 
&nbly ; and no appeal lies from its determinations in re- 


eews | —_ „ kan 3 : 
nods are next ia authority to the general aſſembly. 
«compoſed of a number of the adjacent preſbyteries, over 
thy have a power; and there are fifteen of them in Scot · 
u their acts are reverſible by the general aſſembly; 1 . | 
Late to the ſynods, are pteſbyteries, 69 of which are in 
ach conſiſting of a number of contiguous pariſhes, - The 
of theſe pariſnes, with one ruling elder, choſen half-yearly, 
mery kirk · ſeſſion, compoſe a preſbytery. Theſe preſbyteries 


1 le head town of that diviſion z bat have, no juriſdiction be · 
fo x onn bounds, * within theſe they have copnizance 
wel edadtical cauſes and matters. A chief part of their buſi- 
of t& £cdination of candidates for livings, in which, they are 


erat ad ſolemn. The-patron of a living is bound to, mominate 
of t at in ſix months after a vacancy, ,otherwiſe the preſbytery 
glace jure devoluto 3 but that privilege does not hold in royal 

> |! __ al 1 : 


fl. eſſon is the loweſt |ecelefiaſtical judicatory in Scatland, 
uthority does not extend beyond its own pariſnu. The 
n conſiſt of the miniſters, and elders. The office and duty 
ler or preſbyter, conſiſts in preaching, adminiitring the 
ut, catechiſing, viſiting che ſick, pronouncing: church cen- 
"urT woinating elders, aſſiſting at the ordination of. miniſters, - 
ke bounds of their on preſbyteryy and prefding at the kirk- 


10 © 35; 213.4 1 
eber generally amount to eight or ten perſons, ſelected by 
T ler from among the moſt intelligent and regular of his pa- 
zie The office of elder is nearly the ſame with that of chutch- 
ini u England, having the ſuperintendency of the poor, and 
gement of other parochial affairs. They alſo aſſiſt the 
i ſeveral of his elerieal duties, particulirly in catechiſing, 
ue lick, and at the communion table. One of them is cal - 
ing elder, who is generally a perſon of the firſt quality 
s, f brelt in the pariſh. r ene 
0 ready been obſerved, that the eſtabliſhed religion in Scot · 


cont peeldyterian 3. that it was formerly of a rigid nature, and 
dt a all the auſterities of Calviniſm, and ihtalerance of pope- 
hive bperſecuting ſpirit ; but at preſent it is mild and gentle, 
rub nolt rational Chriſtian may accommodate himſelf to the 
ug ud worſhip of the national church. It is to be wiſhed, 
ity OT” that this moderation was not too often interrupted by tue 


in not only ot lay ſeceders, but of regular miniſters. Theſe 
wu to fix upon the abſurdities (and what church is with · 
ſn) of former divines and viſionaries, and eccleſiaſtical ordi- 
ad diſcipline, which were found to be incompatible with the 
t he porerument, They maintain their own preachers ; tho” 
uf two congregations agree either in principle or practice 
vl100 oer. We do not find, however, that they fly = 


— 2 — = 


— 


FLU” 4 


the face of the civil power, or at leaſt the inſtances'wrors 


| his vepcification is Perhaps more harmonious. The deſire 


the times in which they were written, and are free from ! 


of mind, which rendered him peculiarly fitted for bringinf 


* 


46% C OTL a0 wo 


- Scotland, during time epiſcopa , contained two ard 
rics, St Andrews and Glaſj and NG — 
Edinb 


urnirg ani learned Men. For this article we may ref | » 


Oſſian ſufficiently ſhew that the muſes were no Rrangers 
very remote ages. The Weſtern parts and ien of Seor! 
duced St Patric, the celebrated apoſtle of Ireland and mai 
ſince, whoſe bare names would make # long article.” The 
of Adamnanus, and other authors, Who 'lived before; an 
time of the-conqueſt of England, are ſpecimens of their 
Charles the great. br Charlemagne, according to Scots and 
kiſtorians, held a correſpondence by letters with the kings 
land, with whom de formed a famous league; and emplo 
tain 8cotſmen in planning, ſettling, and ruling his favourite 
ſties, and other ſeminaries of learning, in France, Italy, 

many . It is an undouhted truth, though a ſeeming p: 
ſact, that Barbour, a Scots poet, viloſopher; and hiſtorian, 
prior in time to Chanſer, having flouriſhed in the year 1360 
according to the modern ideas, as pure Engliſh as that ba 


the Scots monuments of learning and antiquity, have rend 
yearly annals lame, and often fabulous ; but the Latin file « 
anan's hiſtory is to this day the moſt claſlical' of all mod 
ductions. The letters of the Scots kings to the neigt 
princes, are: allowed to be the fineſt-"compolit 


the barbariſms to be found in thoſe ſent them in anſwer, I 
ders it at leaſt highly probable, that claſſicul learning was et 
at the court of Scotland even in the rude ages, when if 
overſpread a conſiderable part of Europe.. 
The diſcovery of the Logarithns; a diſcovery, which in pe 
of ingenuity and utility, may vie with any that has been 
modern times, is the indiſputable right of Napier of Me 
And ſince his time, the mathematical ſciences have been c 
in Scotland with amazing fucceſs. Keil, in his phißico- 
cal works, to the clearneſs of his reaſoningy' has added the ce 
of a poet, which is the more remarkable, not enly as the f 
little ſuſceptible of ornament, but as he wrote in an ancient 
Of all writers on aſtronomy, Gregory is allowed to be 0 
moſt perfect and elegant. Maclanvin, the companion and u 
of Sir Iſaac Newton, was endowed with all that preciſion | 


the ideas of that great man, to the level of ordinary appr” 
and for diffuſing that light through the world, which 


+ Eginhard, in vit. Carol. Mag alſo Paulus Emiliuf's hiſtory of the 7 
chievements, &c. Sce Mackenzies lives, 


- 


-” 
_— 


D 40% 
whin the ſphere of the learned. His treatiſe on fluxions 
4by the belt judges in Europe, as the cleareſt account of 
ined and ſubtle ſpeculations on which the human mind 
© itſelf with ſucceſs. While Maclaurin purſued this new 
yeeometer no leſs famous, diltinguithed himſelf in the ſure, - 

leferted tract of antiquity. I his was the late Dr Simp- 
dl known over Europe for his illuſtration of the ancient 

His elements of Euclid, and above all his Conic ſc&ions, 

nt of themſelves to eſtabliſh the literary reputation of his 


nd Scots been unſucceſsful in cultivating the Belles Let 
ineigners, who inhabit waymer climates, and conceive the 
tations incapable of tenderneſs and feeling, are aſtoniſhed 
ſec genius, and delicate ſenſibility of Thomſon. - | a 
i be endleſs to mention all the individuals, who have diſ- 
KW themſelves in the various branches of literature; particu - 
foe who are alive (tome of them in high eſteem for hilto- 
vltion) diſpute the merit with the dead, and cover their 
ith laurels, which neither envy can blaſt, nor time can, 


* / 


#r.] The univerſities of Scotland are four, viz. Thoſe 
revs, Aberdeen, Edinburgh, and Glaſgow. : 


A ſociety was incorporated, by patent, in the year 1708, 
Iny ſchools in North Britain and the Ifles ; and, in 1716, 
ned for their eſtabliſhment, and a fund of 20,0001. was 
wed and made a ſtock, for carrying on the delign : and the 
Ming by King George II. for an additional charter to 
faouſes for employing children in manufactures, houſes 
ud huſbandry, in the Highlands and Iſles, his majeſty not 
med them a patent, but a revenne of 10001. per annum, 
he now upwards of one hundred ſchools, in which be- 
mr and five thouſand boys and girls are educated. | 


lie! and Curioſities, Natural and Artificial.) The Roman, 
W antiquities found in Scotland, have of themſelves farniſhe 
ker for large volumes. The courſe of the Roman wall, (or, 
Bled by the country people, Graham's Dyke, from a tradi- 
be Scottiſh warrior of that name firſt broke over it) be- 
i chde and Forth, which was firſt marked out by Agrico« 
Konpleated by Antoninus Pius, is ſtill diſcernible, as are ſe- 
mn camps in the neighbourhood. Agricola's camp at the 
the Grampian hills, is a ſtriking remain of Roman anti- 
t 's ſituated at Ardoch, in Petthſhire, and is generally 
0 have been the camp occupied by Agricola before he 
le bloody battle ſo well recorded by Tacitus, wich the Cale- 

8 Galgacus, who was defeated. 

"man temple, or building in the form of the Pantheon at 
4 the dome of St Paul's at London, ſtood upon the banks 
Mr Carron, in Stirlingſhire, but was lately demoſtiſhed by 
"ning Goth, for the purpoſe of mending a mill-pond. Its 

3 N | height 


"la 
—— _— — 5 


— — —_— 


— 


- 


— — W — rr „„ 
— as - 
* - 


466 e o r L' a Wk 


— 


Northern counties, and are known by their ſquare figures 
cult ſituations. Some houſes of ſtupendous fabrics remain 


architects that far exceeded thoſe ot any coeval monuments to 


FT , 


height was twenty-two feet, and its external circum 
baſe was eighty - eight feet; ſo that upon the whole, 


the moſt compleat Roman antiquities in the world. 1 | 


to have been built by Agricola, or ſome of his ſucceſſors, 


ple to the god Terminus, as it ſtood near the pretenture whis 
ed the Roman empire in Britain to the North. Near it ard 


tificial conical mounts of earth, which Kill retain the name 
ace, or Duni-pacis; which ſerve to evidence, that the 
ind of ſolemn compromiſe between the Komans and the 
ans, that the former ſhould not extend their empire fartl 
Northwards. " 314 2 { | 
Innumerable are the coins, urns, utenſils, inſcriptions, 
remains of the Komans, that have been found in-differer 
Scotland; ſome of them to the North of the wall, where, 
it does not appear that they made any eſtabliſhment... By 
tions found near the wall, the names of the legions that bui 
how far they carried it on, may be learned The 
man highways are frequent in the Southern parts. 
Daniſh camps and fortifications are ealily diſcernible 


* 
11 I 


ſhire, but whether they are Daniſh, Pictiſn, or Scottiſh, 
appear. YT 1 8 

Two Pictiſh monuments, as they are thought to be, of 
traordinary conſtruction, were lately ſtanding in Scotlan 
them at Abernethy, in Perthſhire, the other at Brechin i 
both of them are columns, hollow in the infide, and withot 
caſe ; that of Brechin is the moſt entire, being covered 
with a ſpiral roof of ſtone, with three or four windows 
coenice: it conſiſts of ſixty regular courſes of hewn free { 
circularly and regularly, and tapering towards the top. 
columns are really Pictiſh, that people muſt have had amd 


in Europe, as they have all the appearance of an order 
building is neat, and in the Roman taſte of architedu 
however, difficult to aſſign them to any but the Pitts, 'asUl 
in their dominions ; and ſome ſculptures upon that at Bred 
note it to be of Chriſtian original. It is not indeed impol 
thoſe ſculptures are of a later date. Beſides thoſe d pi 
ny other Pictiſh buildings are found in Scotland, but not w 
taſte. mr 

| The velliges of erections by the ancient Scots themleive 
only curious but inſtructive, as they regard many umpert 
of their hiſtory. That people had amongſt them # rude 
ſculpture, in which they tranſmitted the actions of their! 
heroes. At a place called Aberlemno, near Brechin, fo 
ancient obeliſks are ſtill to be ſeen, called the Daniſh ones 
lemno. "they were erected as commemorations of the 
ries over that people; and are adorned with baſs-reliefs 
horſe-back, and many emblematical figures and bn 
intelligible at this day, but minutely deſcribed by Mr Gord 
py other hiſtorical» monuments of the Scots may be Wt 


gc OD TO. Li 1 WY - -.:-2080 
xaſons; but it muſt be acknowledged, that the obſcurity 
p{lptures have encouraged a field of boundleſs and frivo- 
ares, ſo that the interpretations of many of them are 
e. It would, however, be unpardonable to neglect men - 
te lone near the town of Forreſs or Fortroſe, in Murray, 
tr ſurpaſſes all the others in magnificence and grandeur, 
| ſays Mr Gordon) perhaps, one of the moſt ſtately mo- 
wat that kind in Europe. It riſes about 23 feet in height, 
nd, and is no leſs than 12 or 15 feet below]; fo that the 
Abt is at leaſt 35 feet, and its breadth near five. It is all 
+ and entire ſtone ; great variety of figures in relievo are 
tereon, ſome of them ſtill diſtinct and viſible: but the in- 
he weather has obſcured thoſe towards the upper part.” 

u theſe remains of Roman, Pictiſh, Daniſh, and Scots an- 
k many druidical monumeuts and temples are diſcernible in 
lern parts of Scotland, as well as in the Ifles, where we 
pose that __—_— took its laſt refuge. They are eaſily per- 
y their circular forms; but though they are equally regular, 
of the mare ſo ſtupendous as the druidical erections in South- 
k There is in Perthſhire a barrow which ſeems to be a Bri- 
*, and the moſt beautiful of the kind perhaps in the world 
th reſembles the figure of a thip with the keel uppermoſt. 
jon people call it Ternay, which ſome interpret to be fer- 
the hip of earth. It ſeems to be of the moſt remote anti- 
nd perhaps was erected to the memory of ſome Britiſh prince, 
d as auxiliary to the Romans; for it lyes near Auchterar- 
many miles diſtant from the great ſcene of Agricola's ope- 


| affords few natural curioſities; mention, however, is 
In heap of white ſtones, moſt of them clear like chryſtal, to- 
nth great plenty of oyſter and other ſea-ſhells, that are found 
bp of a mountain called Skorna Lappich, in Roſsſhire, twen- 
kdiltant from the ſea. Slains, in Aberdeenſhire, is ſaid to 
radle for a petrifying cave, called the Dropping-cave, where 
wang through a ſpungy porous rock on the top, doth quick- 
lune after it drops to the bottom. Other natural curioſi- 
aging to Scotland have taken poſſeſſion of its deſcriptions 
nes, but they . generally owe their extraordinary qualities 
murlity of the vulgar, and vaniſh when they are ſkilfully ex- 
r dome caverns that are to be ſound in Fifeſhire, and are 
I utural, are of extraordinary dimenſions, and have been 
= 0! inhuman cruelties. a 2 

Trum, and other edificer, public and private.] Edinburgh, 

al of Scotland, naturally takes the lead in this diviſion, 
wt, before the uſe of artillery, was deemed to be impreg- 
force, It was probably built by the Saxon king Edwin, 
Mories reached to the Firth of Forth, and who gave his 
nburgh, as it certainly did not fall into the hands of 
WU till the reign of Indulphus, who lived in the year 953. 
"Ws built for the benefit of protection from the caſtle, and 
dccurenient ſituation for a capital can ſcarcely be conceiveds 


3N2 the 


| 
l 
] 


4. s e '0 T £1 +a 
high. ſtreet, which is on the ridge vf a bill, lying Buß 


gency of Mary of Guiſe, they gave it che name of Lieben 


it joins the city. The caſtle not only overlooks the city; 


try, but commands a moſt extenſive proſpect of the-river F 


——ů 2 — x p — — — — 


- ther noblemen. Its long gallery contains 22 ſome e 
y modern . 


the kings of Scotland down to the time of the revolution 


piece of Gothic architecture. It had a very 


rifled of all its rich ornaments, by the fury of the _— 
Jution, which even broke into the repoſitories of the 


* * * * 
- 


and the lanes running down its fides, North and South, 
times the town was ſurrounded by: watery excepting to 
Eaſt ; fo that when the French landed in Scotland, durit 


tuation ſuggeſted the idea of _— very loſty houſes d 
to ltories, each of which contains a ſuite of rooms, gene 
2 commodious for the uſe of a ſamily; ſo that the hig 
Edinburgh, which is chiefly of hewn ſtone, broad and well pas 
a molt auguſt appearance, eſpecally as it riſes a full mile i 
Jine, and gradual aſcent from the palace of Holy-rood 
the Eaſt, and is terminated on the Welt by the rude maj 
caſtle, built upon a lofty rock, inacceſſible on all ſides, exct 


rons, gardens, the new town, and a fine- rich neighbouri 


ſhipping, the oppoſite coaſt of Fife, and even ſome hills: 
tance of 40 or 50 miles, which border upon the Highlant 
crowded population, however, was ſo ſhockingly inconveni 
the Engliſh, who ſeldom went farther into the country, 
with the deepeſt impreſſions of Scots naſtineſs, which bed 
verbial. The caſtle has ſome good apartments, a tollerabl 
artillery, and has not only a large magazine of arms and 
tion, but contains the regalia, which were depoſited here 
moſt ſolemn legal inſtruments of their never being remo 
thence. All that is known at. preſent of thoſe regalia, is « 
in the inſtrument which was taken at the time of their bet 
ſited, where they are fully deſcribed. | 

Facing the caſtle, as I have already obſerved, at a mile 2 
ſtands the abbey, or rather palace of Holy-rood-houle, 1 
r of this palace, was begun by James V. and f 
Charles I. is of magnificent modern architecture, built acct 
the plan, and under the direction of Sir William Bruce 
gentleman of family, and undoubtedly one of the greatel 
of that age. Round the quadrangle runs an arcades ad 
pilaſters ; and the inſide contains magnificent apartment 
duke of Hamilton, who is hereditary keeper of the palace 


are from portrait, but all of them painted 


VII. when duke of York, intended to have made great 
ments about this palace ; for at preſent nothing can be 
comfortable than its ſituation, at the bottom of bleak un 
craggs and mountains, with ſcarce a ſingle tree in its neight 
The chapel belonging to the palace, as it ſtood when rep 
ornamented by that prince, is thought to have been a mY 


— * 
rooms of ſtone galleries ſupported by curious pillars 
conventual church of the old Abbey. Its inſide was demo 


covered a vault, till that time unknown, which contaue 


nd fi 
ACC 
ruce 
telt 
ade 
neut 
alace 
Me 
Tn 1 
ion 


* ' 
* 

N . 
1 


= 


5 cc © Tr: Ir &@& M1 
v. his firſt queen, and Henry Darnley. The walls 
of this ancient chapel | gave way and tell down on the ad 
(December, 1768, occationed by the enormous weight of 
be roof, laid over it ſome years ago, which the walls were 
{ | 5 
hy fonded by George Heriot, goldſmith to James VI. 
| d Heriot's Work, ſtands to the South-Weſt of - the 
£4 noble ſituation. It-is the fineſt and moſt regular ſpeci- 
W luigo Jones, whom James VI. of Scotland brought over 
Sanark, has left us of his Gothic manner, and far exceeding 
of that kind to be ſeen. in England. One Balquahanan, 
rom Heriot left his executor, is ſaid to have prevailed 
sto admit ſome barbarous devices into the building, particu- 
nindows, and to have inſiſted that the ornaments of each 
Lomewhat different from thoſe of the others. | 
wivithſtanding, upon the whole, a delightful fabric, and 
{ with gardens, elegantly laid out. It was built for the 
nee and education of poor children belonging to the citi- 
tradeſmen of Edinburgh, and is under the direction of the 
gilrates. 
yz the other public edifices of Edinburgh before the revolu- 
w the college, which claims the privileges of an univerſity, 
i by king James VI. and by him put under the direction of 
filrites, who have the power of chancellor and vice-chancel- 
little can be ſaid of its buildings, which were calculated for 
x literary manners of thoſe days; they are, however, im- 
and may be rendered elegant: what is of far more im- 
it is ſupplied with excellent profeſſors in the ſeveral branch- 
ning ; and its ſchools for every part of the medical art are 
equal to any in Europe. This college is provided with a 
founded by one Clement Little, which is ſaid to have been 
peatly augmented ; and a muſeum belonging to it was given 
Andrew Balfour, a phyſician. It contains ſeveral natural, 
I - 2 curioſities, which one would little expect to fiad 
liament-ſquare, was formerly the moſt ornamental part 
ay; it is formed into a very noble quadrangle, part of 
walls of lofty buildings: and in the middle is a very fine 
an ſtatue of Charles II. The room built by Charles 1, for 
nent-houſe, though not ſo large, is better proportioned 
Mdainter-Hall ; and its roof, though executed in the ſame 
ls by many great judges held to be ſuperior. It is now 
lu into a court of law, where a ſingle judge, called the lord 
þ prelides by rotation; in a room near it, ſit the other 
Bud adjoining are the public offices of the law, exchequer, 
+ herivalty, and magiltracy of Edinburgh ; and the law- 
able library, This equals any thing of the like kind to be 
a England, or perhaps in any part of Europe, being at firſt 
8 and furniſhed by lawyers. The number of printed 
, Mans is amazing; and the collection has been made with 
ate and judgement, It contains likewiſe the moſt valuable 
remains of che Scots hiſtory, chartularies, and other — 
0 


** 4 * 


9 * 


„„ O 
of antiquity, with a ſeries of medals. Adjoining to the if 
tie room where the public records are kept; but both it, 
which contains the library, though lofty in the roof, ares 
dark and diſmal. - 
The High Church of Edinburgh called that of gt Gite 
divided into two or three churehes, and a room where the 
aſſembly fits. It is a large Gothic building, and its ſteep 
mounted by arches formed into an imperial crown, which h 
effect to the eye. The churches, and other edifices of the 
rected before the Union, contain little but what is common 
buildings, but the excellent pavement of the city; which 
two centuries ago by one Merlin, a Frenchman, deferves x 
Attention. * | 
- Fhe modern edifices in and near Edinburgh, fuch as the ef 
its hoſpitals, bridges, and the like, demonſtrate the valt it 
ment of the taſte of the Scots in their public works.  Parall 
city of Edinburgh, on the North, the nobility, gentry, and 
have begun to build a new town, upon a plan which does 
to the preſent age. The ſtreets and ſquares are laid out 
utmoſt regularity, and the houſes are to be built of tone, in 
_ pant taſte, with all the conveniencies that render thoſe of! 
to delightful and commodious. The fronts of ſome are 
finiſhed in all the beauties of architecture, diſplaying at « 
time the judgment of the builder, and the public ſpirit of 
prietor. | | | 
Between the old and the new town lies a narrow bottom 
which, agreeable to the original plan, was to have been fo 
to a ſheet of water, bordered by a terrace walk, and the af 
wards the new town covered with pleaſure gardens, ſhrubbe 
At the Weſt, or upper end of this vale, the caſtle,” a folid ro 
leſs than twenty ſtories high, looks down with awful magn 
The Eaſtern extremity is bounded by a ſtriking object of art, 
bridge, the middle arch being ninety feet high, which Joins! 
buildings to the city, and renders the deſcent on each ſide 
Hy being no water in this place) more commodious for es 
am the more particular in deſcribing this place, that the 
may form ſome idea of its pleaſant . ſtanding on 
nence, with a gentle declivity on each fide, in the heart d 
country; the view Southward, that of a romantic c ! 
romantic caſtle, and diſtant hills rifing to an amazing height 
the proſpect Northward gives full ſcope to the eye, pleaſes 
gination, and fills the mind with ſuch ideas as dhe works d 
alone can inſpire. One agreeable proſpect however is ill 
and that is a handſom clean inn, with a genteel coſtee-room* 
the North ſummit of the hill, which might eafily be acm 
ſubſcription, and from the great reſort of travellers, could a 
to bring a profitable return. : bai 
Fronting the Northern extremity of the bridge, A fine 5 
now carrying on, under the name of the regilter-office, ” q 
a repoſitory for the records and law papers, juſt nov » 
parliament houſe. It is all built of Rone, that it may be 


* 


r and bids fair, when finiſhed, to excel every other build- 
Sch, in the grandeur of its appearance. 

urn may be conſidered, notwithſtanding its caſtle, and an 
rbich incloſes it on the South fide, of a very modern fa · 
the Roman manner, as an open town; fo that in ſact, it 
ure been impracticable for its inhabitants to have defended 
4 the rebels, who took poſſeſſion of it in 1745. Ibis city 
os a play honſe, which has now the ſanction of an act of par- 
; and concerts, aſſemblies, balls, mufic · meetings and other 
auſemeats, are as frequent and brilliant here, as in any 
ks najeſty's dominions, London and Bath excepted. 


nd a treaſurer, annually choſen from the common council. 
xapanyy/ or incorporated trade, chooſes its own deacon ;z 
are fourteen, namely, ſurgeons, goldſmiths, ſkinners, fur- 
unmer · men, wrights or carpenters, maſons, taylors, bakers, 
n cordwainers, Weavers, fullers, and bonnet-makers. The 
wolt is colonel of the town - guard, a military inſtitution to 


me for the city watch, and patrole the ſtreets, are uſeſul in 
fro ſmall commotions, and attend the execution of ſentences 
&inquents : they are divided into three companies, and wear 
um; they are immediately commanded by three officers, 


(companies of trained bands, which ſerve as militia. The res» 
xd the city conſiſt chiefly of that tax which is now common 
| of the bodies corporate of Scotland, of two Scots pennies, 
ng in the whole to two thirds of a farthing, laid upon every 
pat of ale (containing two Engliſh quarts) conſumed. within 
kcindts of the city, This is a moſt judicious impoſt, as it ren- 
l poorelt people inſenſible of the burden. Its product, how- 
ws been ſufficient to defray the expence of ſupplyint the city 
keellent water, brought in leaden pipes at the diſtance of four 
z of erecting reſervoirs, enlarging the harbour of Leith, and 
ug other public works of great expence and utility. 

. though near two miles diſtance, may be properly called 
nour of Edinburgh, being under the ſame juriſdiction. It 


art of nothing remarkable, but the remains of two citadels (if 
ty; TT”: the ſame) fortified and bravely defended by the French 
Age Engliſh, under Mary of Guiſe, and afterwards repaired 
ſes (OE. The neighbourhood of Edinburgh is adorned with 
ks 0 Ws, which are daily increaſing ; ſome of them yield to few 
ill fand; but they are too numerous to be particularized here. 
om t however, avoid mentioning the earl of Abercorn's, a ſhort 


= the city, the duke of Bugcleugh's houſe at Dalkeith, that 
quis of Lothian at Newbottle, and Hopton-houſe, ſo cal- 
the earl its owner, About four miles from Edinburgh is 
ted for a ſtately Gothic chapel, counted one of the moſt 
Peces of workmanſhip in Europe; founded in the year 
5 William St Clair, prince of Orkney, and duke of Olden- 


e, in the ſhire of Lanark, ſituated on a gentle declivity 
| f mob flopping 


c OT L AN BD (ru 


ph is governed by a lord provoſt, four bailiffs, a dean of 


win no part of his majeſty's dominions but at Edinburgh: - 


te name of captains. Beſides this guard, Ediaburgh raiſes 


m 


, f 1 Nee 8 

472 00 r 
flopping towards the river Clyde, 44 miles Welt of Eau 
for population, commerce, and riches, the ſecond city of 
and, conſidering its ſize, the firſt in Great Britain, and 
Europe, as to elegance, regularity, and the beautiful +. 
its buildings. The ſtreets.croſfs each other at right angles 
broad, ſtraight, well paved, and conſequently clean. 
make a grand appearance, and are in general four or fi 
high, and many of them towards the center of the city are 
ed by arcades, which form piazzas, and give the Whole 
magnificence. Some of the modern built churches are in 
ſtile of architecture, and the cathedral is a ſtupendous Goth 
ing, hardly to be paralleled in that kind of architeQure, 
tains three churches, one of which ſtands above another, at 
niſhed with a very fine ſpire ſpringing from a tower; the 
ing reckoned a maſterly and a matchleſs fabric. It was 
to t __ or Kentigern, who was biſhop of Glaſgow, in 
century. The cathedral is upwards of 600 years old, and 
ſerved from the fury of the reformers by the reſolution of 
zens. The town-houſe is a loſty building, and has very 
partments for the magiſtrates. 1 he univerſity is eſteemed 
ſpacious and beſt built of any in Scotland, and is at pre 
thriving ſtate. In this city are ſeveral well endowed hoſpit 
it is particularly. well ſupplied with large and convenient in 
per for the accommodation of the molt illuſtrious ſtranger. 
ſome bridge is newly built acroſs the river Clyde, and a | 
of ground is purchaſed near the croſs, where they intend t 
magnificent exchange. In Glaſgow are ſeven churches, 
or ten meeting-houſes for ſectaries of various denomination 
number of its inhabitants have been eſtimated at 50,000. 

Aberdeen bids fair to be the third town in Scotland for i 
ment and population. It is the capital of a ſhire, to which 
its name, and contains two towns, New and Old Aberdee 
former is the ſhire town, and evidently built for the purpole 
merce. It is a large well built city, and has a good quay 
harbour: in it are three churches and ſeveral epiſcopal t 
houſes, a conſiderable degree of foreign commerce, and mt 
- ping, a well frequented univerſity, and above 12,000 ih 
Old Aberdeen, near a mile diſtant, though almolt joined 
new by means of a long village, has no dependanee on th 
it is a moderately large market town, but has no haven. 
of theſe two places there is a well endowed college, both 
being termed the univerfity of Aberdeen, although quite 
dent of each other. Perth, the capital town of Perthſhire, 
the river Tay, trades to Norway and the Baltic; it fine 
ed, has an improving linen manufactory, and lies in the ne 
hood of one of the moſt fertile ſpots in Great Britam, © 
Carſe of Gowry. Dundee, by the general computation, conta 
10,000 inhabitants: it lies near the mouth of the river 147 
town of confiderable trade, exporting much linen, 16.4 
and peltry, to ſundry foreign parts : it has three chure 4 
troſe, Aberbrothic, and Brechin, lie in the ſame county 


CG UG N h n I 


de other two are upon the thriving, hand. 
went Scots valued. themſelves upon their truſting to their 
;, and not to fortifications, for the defence of their coun- 
en 4 maxim more heroical perhaps than prudent, as they 
a experienced 5; and indeed to this day their forts would 
Fabry figure, if regularly attacked. The caſtle of Edin - 
viding, and Dumbarton, formerly thought places of 
& could not hold out forty-eight hours, if beſieged by 6coo 
mops, with proper artillery. Fort William, which lies in 
{ Highlands, is ſufficient to bridle the inhabitants of the 
ood, as are Fort George and Fort Auguſtus, in the 
North - Weſt; but none of them can be conſidered as de- 
pull a foreign enemy. 
not pretend to enter upon a deſcription of the noble edifi- 
hve, within the courſe of this and the laſt century, been 
V private perſons in Scotland, becauſe they are ſo numerous, 
wriicularize them exceeds the bounds of my plan. It is ſuf» 
play, that many of them are equal to the moſt ſuperb build- 
lagland and foreign countries: and the reader's ſurprize at 
eaſe, when he is informed that the genius of no people in 
is more devoted to architecture than that of the nobility 
ry of Scotland; and that there is no country in Europe 
nt of the cheapneſs of materials, where it can be oratified 
lernte an expence. This may likewiſe account for the ſtu- 
z Gothic cathedrals, and other religious edifices which an- 
gounded in Scotland; but at the time of the reformation 
ly demoliſhed to the ground by a furious and tumultuous 
jo, in theſe practices, received too much countenance from 


ning clergy. 


me ans Manufadtures.) Scotland may hitherto be juſtly 
Won as a noa-· deſcribed country. All the writers, till with- 
blew years, who have treated of that nation, repreſent it as 
ite very ſame tate as a century ago. In this they are not 

becauſe the alteration, which the people and country have 
ſe, has been inconceivably ſudden. Without entering in- 
Wuted point, how far Scotland was benefited by its union 
and, it is certain that the expedition of the Scots, to take 
d Darien, and to carry on an Eaſt and Weſt-India trade, 
&d upon true principles of commerce, and (ſo far as it 
cited with a noble ſpirit of enterprize. The miſcarriage 
Keme, after receiving the higheſt and moſt ſolemn ſanctions, 
Mace to the annals of that reign in which it happened; as 
lad then a free, independent, and unconnected parlia- 

*are to account for the long languor of the Seottiſn com - 
ud many other misfortunes which that country ſuſtained, 
ul the inhabitants received on that account, and ſome in- 
@ ther rights, which they thought inconſiſtent with the ar- 
Wion, The intails and narrow ſettlements of family eſtates, 
| 1 ot the feudal inſtitutions, might contribute to the 


30 Mr 


474 $ Co” 
Mr Pelham, when at the head of the adminiftration ; 
after the extinction of the rebellion i 1945, was the 6 
who diſcovered the true value of Scotland; "which they 
more conſiderable object of govermental inquiry than 
the benefits received by. that country, for the relief of 
from their feudal tyranny, were effected by that great 
bounties and encouragements granted to the Scots, for thi 
trade and manufactures, during his adminiſtration, made 
ſible of their own importance; and had be been a Scot 
have ruined his miniſtry, ' Mr Pitt, a Tucceeding' miniltet 
Mr Pelbam's wiſe plan: and juſtly boaſted" in parliamer 
availed himſelf of the courage, good ſenſe, and ſpirit of 
in carrying on the moſt extenſive war that Great Britain 
engaged in. Let me add, to the honour of the Britiſh g 
that whatever indecent and mean reſentments have! been 
by the refuſe of the Engliſh nation againſt the Scott, the 
been ſuffered to avail themſelves of all the benefits of com 
manuſactures they can claim, either in right of their { 
pendency, the treaty of union, or poſterior ads of parlian 
This is manifeſt in the extenſive trade they carry on wi 
tiſh ſettlements in America and the Weſt Indies, and * 
nations to which the Engliſh themſelves trade; ſo that ul 
of their ſhipping within theſe twenty-five years palt, has 
confiderable. The exports of thoſe ſhips are compoſed Wi 
Scots mannſactures, fabricated from the produce of the 
the induſtry of its inhabitants. In exchange for thoſe, th 
tobacco, rice, cotton, ſugar, and rum, from the Britiſh pl 


4 


and from other countries, their products to the imments 


their nation. 

The fiſheries of Scotland are not confined to their on 
they have a vaſt concern in the whale fiſhery carried on 
coalt of Spitſbergen ; and their returns are valuable, as th 
ment allows them a bounty of 40 8. for every ton of ſhip 
ployed in that article. Ihe late improvement of their fiber 
I have already mentioned, and which are daily mereat 
inexhauſtible funds of wealth; their cured filh being by f 
and the Engliſh planters in America, preferred to thok 


* 


toundland. | 

The buſſes, or veſſels employed in the great herring fie 
Weſtern coaſts of Scotland, are fitted out ſrom the North 
of England, the North of Ireland, as well as the numerou 
the Clyde and neighbouring iflands. The grand render 
Campbletown, a commodious port in Argyleſbire, facing 
of Ireland, where ſometimes 300 veſſels have been alſemblc 
clear out on the 12th of September, and muſt return tothe 
ports by the 43th of January. They are alſo under certa 
tions reſpecting the number of tuns, men, nets, Ec. the 
ing judiciouſly calculated to promote the beſt of national 
its ſtrength and its commerce. But though the political er 
Great Britain depends upon the number and bravery of het 
this noble inſtitution bas hitherto proved ruineus to man 


6% O ©, T. L AN PO. 415 
abarked in it, and unleſs vigorouſly ſupported will end 


race this fiſhery, a bounty of 50. per tun was granted 
at, but whether, from the inſufficiency of the fund ap- 
for this purpoſe, or any other cauſe, the bounty was 
kom year to year, While in the mean time the adventurers 
1j ſinking their fortunes, but alſo borrowing to the ut. 
gol their credit. The bounty has fince been reduced from 
I wich the ſtrongeſt aſſurances of its being regularly paid 
Upon the ſtrength of theſe promiſes they have again 
ato the filhery, and again have experienced the delay of 


efits of thoſe fiſheries are perhaps equalled by other ma- 
gcarying on at land, particularly that of iron at Carron, 
lire, where 1200 men are employed in caſting Cannon 
witty of domeſtic utenſils. Their linen manufactory, not- 
ng a ſtrong rivalſhip from Ireland, ſupported underhand 
Engliſh, is in a flouriſhing ſtate. The thread manufacture 
nd is equal, if not ſuperior, to any in the world; and the 
ated from it, has been deemed worthy of royal wear and 
ion, It has been ſaid ſome years ago, that the exports from 
to England, and the Britiſh plantations, in linen, cambrics, 
Oaburgs, inkle, and the like commodities, amounted an- 
þ400,000 l. excluſive of their home-conſumption ; and there 
y to believe that the ſum is conſiderably larger at preſent. 
wb are likewiſe making very promiſing efforts tor eſtabliſhing 
mnuſattures,z and their exports of caps, ſtockings, mittens, 
x articles of their own wool, begin to be very conſiderable. 
ts, it is true, cannot pretend to rival the Engliſh in their 
ths; but they make at preſent ſome broad cloth proper for 
af people of faſhion in an undreſs, and in quality and fine- 
ul to what is commonly called Yorkſhire cloth. Among tho 
ſe improvements of the Scots, we are not to forget the vaſt 
they have made in working the mines, and ſmelting the 
lteir country. Their coal trade to England is well known; 
we they have turned even their ſtones to account, by their 
6 lor paving the ſtreets of London, If the great trade in 
mach the Scots carried on of late with the Engliſh, is now 
&d, it is owing to the belt of national cauſes, that of an in- 
dome conſumption. 
trade carried on by the Scots with England, is chiefly from 
ud the Eaſtern ports of the nation; but Glaſgow was the 
aporium for the American commerce. 
expectations were formed from the canal between the Firth 
ud Clyde; but this project, though completed ſome time 
a expence, does not ſeem to be attended with a benefit 
ent to the original expence of making it, and keeping it in 
b The reaſon of this is, that not being lined with either brick 
\ which indeed its great extent renders in a manner impoſ- 
* earth will in all probability ſoon fill it up, unleſs ſuch con- 
M's taken to cleanſe it, as no advantage it can poſſibly be 
country can defray the charge of. 


3 © 2 With 


476 s co TT aw 

With regard to other manufadures, ſbime of them ut 
infancy, The town of Paiſley itſelf employs an incredible 
hands in fabricating a particular kind of flowered and ſtrip 
which are a reaſonable and elegant wear, 'Sugar-houſes, g 
of every kind, delf houſes, and paper-mills, are eredted & 
The Scots carpeting make neat and laſting furniture; and 
ſays have been lately made, with no inconfiderable degree 
to carry that branch of manufacture to as great perfegions 
in any part of Europe. Even the fine arts begin to make f 

reſs. An academy of painting, engravihg,-and ſtatuary 

liſhed at Glaſgow, under the patronage of ſeveral noblenlf 
tlemen, and principal merchants, After all that has b 
many years will be required before the trade and improve 
Scotland can be brought to maturity. In any event, tl 
can give umbrage to the Engliſh, as the intereſts of the gt 
are, or ought to be the ſame. ee ee | 


Revenues, ] See England, on "83 EL 


Coins.) In the reign of Edward II. of England, the y 
denominations of coins were the ſame” in Scotland as in 
Towards the reign of James II. a Scots ſhilling anſwered 
an Engliſh ſixpence; and about the reign of Queen” Mary 
land, it was no more than an Engliſh groat. It continued 
ing in this manner till-after the union of the two crowns, 1 
ſon James VI. when the yaſt reſort of the Scots nobilit 
to the Engliſh court, occaſioned ſuch” a drain of ſpecie 
land, that by degrees a Scots ſhilling fell to the value of of 
of an Engliſh ſhilling, and their pennies in proportion. 
penny is now very rarely to be found; and they were ſue 
bodles, which was double the value of a Scots penny, and 
current, but are daily wearing out. A Scots halipenny 
Jed a babie; ſome ſay; becauſe it was firſt ſtamped with 
of James III. when he was a babe or baby; but perhaps 
the corruption of two French words, bas piece, ſignifying a 
of money. The ſame obſervation we have made of the Scots 
holds of their poungs and marks ; which are not coins, but 
nation of ſums. In all other reſpects, the currency of 
Scotland and England is the ſame ; as very few people nc 
by the Scots computatiqn. et =; 


Order of the Thiſtle.) This is a military order, inſtitute 
Scots writers aſſert, by their king Achaius, in the ninth 
npon his making an offenſive and defenſive league with Chart 
king of France. It has been frequently neglected, and as ( 
ſumed. At preſent it conſiſts of the ſovereign, and 12 00 
who are called Knights of the Thiſtle, and have on the 
this ſignificant motto, Nemo me impune laceſſit. None it 
provoke me. | 


Laws and Conſtiturion.] No government in Europe Was! 
ted for the enjoyment of liberty, than that of Scotland 


Gi mE 90 477 
aficution ; and if it was reprehenſible in any reſpeR, it 
Aa kſt more freedom to the ſubject than is conſiſtent wih 
enn en e to, wn nl e ee e 6 
ent kings of Scotland, at their coronation, took the fol- 
ath, containing three promiſes, viz. Ow 74 
Lye name of Chriſt, I promiſe theſe three things to the Chri- 
my ſubjects ; Firſt, that I ſhall give order, and employ 
and aſſiſtance, that the church of z and the Chriitian 
gay enjoy true peace during our time, under our- govern. 
&ondly, I ſhall prohibit and hinder all perſons of whatever 
hom violence and injuſtire. Thirdly, in all judgments 1 
Wor the preſcriptions ot juſtice ayd mercy, to the end that 
gent and merciful God, may ſhew mercy to me, and to 


ariament of Scotland anciently conſiſted of all who held any 
of land, however ſmall, of the crown, by military ſervice. 
wianent appointed the. times of its own meeting and ad · 
ut, and committees to ſuperintend theadminiſtration during 
mals of parliament z it had a commanding power in all mat - 
wrernment ; it appropriated the public money, ordered the 
of it, and called for the accounts z it armed the people, and 


&d commanders ; it named and commiſſioned ——— 

and limited pardons : it appointed judges and courts 
ure; it named officers of ſtate and privy-counſellors ; it an- 
ud alienated the revenues of the crown, and reſtrained grants 
ing. The king of Scotland had no negative voice in parli- 
ur could he declare war, make peace, or conclude any o- 
ic buſincſs of importance, without the advice and approba- 
xuliawent. The prerogative of the king was ſo bounded, 
vu not even entruſted with the executive part of the go - 
And ſo late as the minority of James IV. who was co- 
vith and ſon-in-law to Henry VII. of England, the par- 
painted out to him his duty, as the firſt ſervant of his peo- 
wpears by the acts ſtill extant. In ſhort, the conſtitution 
wr ariſtocratical than monarchical. The abuſe of theſe ari- 
ri powers, by the chieftains and great landholders, gave the 
Fever, a very conſiderable intereſt among the lower ranks ; 
Mice who had ſenſe and - addreſs to retain the aſſections of 
, was generally able to humble the molt overgrown of his. 
8: when, on the other hand, a king of Scotland, like James 
d a dilreſpe to his parliament, the event was commonly 
de crown. The kings of Scotland, notwithſtanding this 
at power in the parliament, found means to weaken and e- 
"ree; and in this they were aſſiſted by their clergy, whoſe 
"Fre immenſe, and who had very little 1 
5 and were always jealous of the powerful nobility. This 
le by eſtabliſhing a ſelect body of members, who were called 
of the articles, Theſe were choſen out of the clergy, nobili- 
zus, and burgeſſes. The biſhops, for inſtance, choſe 8 
Us the peers 8 biſhops z and thoſe 16 jointly choſe 8 barons 
Mis of the ſiire) and 8 commiſſioners tor burghs; and _ 1 

| 0 


"Y 
: * 7 


4 8 & & TI Lf aww 


thoſe were added 8 great officers of che chanel 

| ay of rag D 194m 323 _ it vows ” 
Their buſineſs was to prepare all queſtions 
matters brought into parliament ;. ſo chat in — — 
could give no negative, yet being by his clergy; and 

. had to deſtow, always fure of the lords of articles, nothi 
come into parliament that could call for his negative 1 
acknowledged, tit this inſtitution ſeems to have prevailed l 
nor was it ever brought into any regular fyſtem;'even i 
carried; and the greateſt Jawyers are i t when it te 
The Scots, however, never Joſt ſight of their original 5 
and though Charles I. wanted to form theſe lords of the art 
regular machines for his own deſpotic purpoſes, he found it 
ticable ; and the melancholy conſequences are well known, 
revolution, the Scots gave a freſh inſtance how-much be 
underſtood the principles of liberty thay the Enyliſh did, 
ting all pedantic: debate about abdication, and the like te 
voting king James at once to have forfeited his crown; y 
gave to the prince and prineeſs of Orange. 
This ſpirit of reſiſtance was the more remarkable, as tl 
had groaned under the moſt inſupportable miniſterial 
ſince the reſtoration, It is aſked why did they ſubmit to th 
ny? The anſwer is, in order to preferve that independen 
England, which Cromwell and his parliament-endeavoury 
ſtroy, by uniting them with England: they therefore cho 


mit to a temporal evil; but they took the firfh opportunity 


of their oppreſſors. | 1 
Scotland, when it was a ſeparate kingdom, cannot be fai 
bad any peers, in the Engliſh ſenſe of the word. © The 
who were dukes, marquiſſes, earls, and lords, were by « 
made hereditary barons of parliament ; but they formed 1 
houſe, for they ſat in the ſame room wich the commons, 
the ſame deliberative and decifive vote with them in all pul 
ters. A baron, though not a baron of parliament, might 
a lord's aſſize in matters of life and death; nor was it nece 
the aſſizers, or jury, to be unanimous in their 
dal cuſtoms, even at the time of the reſtoration, were o 
the reſcue of a great criminal was commonly ſo much ap 
ed, that ſeldom above two days paſſed between the ſentence 
execution. | 
Great uncertainty occurs in the Scots hiſtory, by col 
parliaments with conventions ; the difference was, thata pa 
could enact laws as well as lay on taxes; aco vor 
of the ſtates, only met for the purpoſes of taxation. 
on, the kings of Scotland had four great and four leſſer o 
ſtate; the great, were the lord high chancellor, high 
privy- ſeal, and ſecretary : the four lefſer were, the 1076s 
advocate, treaſurer · depute, and juſtice-clerk. Since che un 
of theſe continue, excepting the lords privy- ſeal, _ , 
and juſtice-clerk ; a third ſecretary of ſlate has oc nally 
minated by the king for Scottiſh affairs, but under the ln 


fe or LI 4 © nk #19 © 
a be other two ſecretaries: The above officers of ſtate 
le parliament by virtue of their offices. 
ers of the crown were, the high-chamberlain, conſtables, 
ad marſhal. The officers of conſtable and marſhal were 
„ A nobleman has ſtill a penfion as admiral; and the 
ſaarſhal is exerciſed by a knight marſhal. — 
Fe of chancellor of Scotland differed little from the ſame 
The fame may be ſaid of the lords treaſurer, privy- 
A ſecretary, The lord-regiſter was head-clerk to the parlia- 
aareation, treaſury, exchequer, and ſeſſion, and keeper of 
records, Though his office was only during the king's 
jet it was very lucrative, by diſpoſing of his deputation, 
ned during life. He acted as teller to the parliament z and 
kygerous for any member to diſpute” his report of the num- 
2 diviſion. The lord-advocate*s office reſembles that of 
prrey-general in 2 only his powers are far more 
ie; becauſe, by the Scots laws, he is the proſecutor of all 
crimes before the juſticiary, and likewiſe concurs in all pur- 
are ſovereign courts for breaches of the peace; and alſo in 
ters civil, wherein the king, or his donator, has intereſt. 
klcitors are named by his majeſty, by way of aſſiſtanee to the 
Incate, The office of juſtice-clerk, entitles the poſſeſſor to 
in the criminal court of juſtice, while the juſtice-general, 
l ſhall deſcribe hereafter, is abſent. 7 
ucient conſlĩitution of Scotland admitted of many other of- 
b of the crown and ſtate ; but they are either now extinct or 
mhderable to be deſcribed here. That of Lyon king at arms, 
kt frcialium, or grand herald of Scotland, is ſtill in being, 
ra formerly an office of great ſplendour and importance, 
that the ſcience of heraldry was preſerved there in greater 
tan in any other country in Europe. He was even crown- 
may in parliament with a golden' circle ; and his authority, 
$10t the caſe in England, in all armorial affairs, might be 
to execution by the civil law. 
y. council of Scotland, before the revolution, had, or aſ- 
aquiitorial powers, even that of torture; but it is now ſunk 
kiament and privy council of Great Britain, and the civil 
uml cauſes there are chiefly cognizable by two courts of ju- 


it is that of the college of juſtice, which was inſtituted by 
. ater tue model of the Freach parliament, to ſupply an am- 
| committee of parliament, who took to themſelves the names 
ns of council and ſeſſion, which the preſent members of the 
Cjultice (till retain. This court conſiſts of a preſident and 
a ndinary members, beſides extraordinary ones named by 
$ V0 may fit and vote, but have no ſalaries, and are not 
"aendance, This court may be called a ſtanding jury in 
"5 of property that lye before them. Their forms of pro- 
W dot lye within my plan, neither does any inquiry how 
" inſtitution, in ſo narrow a country as Scotland, is com- 
Mi the ſecurity of private property. The civil law is their 
I all matters that come not within the municipal laws of 


” YO” oa er ey A Aw ot os - 
On . 7 
= 


the kingdom. It has been often matter of ſurprize,. that 


| were eſſential to the poſſeſſion of eſtates and lands, which in 
. ſhall/juſt add, that the lords of council and ſeſſion act like 


in its preſent form it was inſtituted ſo late as the year-1672 


- freſh waters, and navigable rivers, below the firſt bridge, e 


' Subordinate to them is a body of inferior lawyers, or; 4s | 


480 8: OO. T. Ir A ik 


were ſo tenacious of the forms of their courts, and the 
their laws, as to reſerve them by the articles of the unio; 
however, can be eaſily accounted for, becauſe thaſe laws 


are often held by modes incompatible with the laws of Eng 


court of equity, but their decrees are reverſible bythe houſe 
to which an appeal lyes. D 
Ihe juſtice court is the higheſt criminal tribunal in Sec 


lord juſtice general, removable at the king's pleaſure, was 
ed. This lucrative office ſtill exiſts in the perſon of one of 
nobility z but the ordinary members of the court, are the 
clerk and five other judges, who are always nominated f 
lords of ſeſſion. In this court the verdict of a jury conden 
quits, but, as I have already hinted, without any neceſſity 
being unanimous. | / | 

Beſides thoſe two great courts of law, the Scots, by the 
the Union, have a court of exchequer. This court has 
power, authority, privilege, and juriſdiction, over the re 
Scotland, as the court of exchequer in England has over t 
nues there; and all matters and things competent to the 
Exchequer of England relating thereto, are likewiſe comp 
the exchequer of Scotland, 'The judges of the exchequer 
land exerciſe certain powers which formerly belonged to 
ſury, and are ſtill veſted in that of England. 

The court of admiralty in Scotland, was, in, the reign 0 
IT. by act of parliamevt,. declared to be a ſupreme cou 
cauſes competent to its own. juriſdiction; and the lord high 
is declared to be the king's lieutenant aud juſtice genera) 
ſeas, and in all ports, — ir and creeks of the ſame; 2 


flood-mark ; ſo that nothing competeut to his juriſdickiot 
meddled with, in the firſt inſtance, but by the lord high ada 
the judges of his court. Sentences paſſed in all inferior c 
admiralty, may be brought again before his court; but a0 
tion [yes from it to the lords of the ſeſſion, or any other jus 
unleſs in caſes not maritime. Cauſes are tried in his cou 
clvil law, which, in ſuch caſes, is likewiſe the common Jaw 
land, as well as by the laws of Orelon, Wiſby, and the Han 
and other maritime practices and deciſions common upon 1 
nent. The place of lord admiral of Scotland is little more 
minal, but the ſalary annexed to it is reckoned. worth 1000. 
and the judge of the admiralty is commonly a lawyer of e 
with conſiderable perquiſites pertaining to his office. 
The college or faculty of advocates, which anſwers to 
liſh inns of court, may be called the ſeminary of Scots law yen 
are within themſelves an orderly court, and their forms re 
precifion and examination to qualify its candidates tor 4 


be called, attornies, who call themſelves writers to the ſg 


j & O T It A N B. 401 


ne can ſubſeribe the writs. that paſs the fignet ;. they 
re a bye- government for their own regulation. Such are 
Ah courts that are held in the capital of Scotland ; we 
4 thoſe that are inferior. | | | ; 
t of the counties of Scotland was formerly veſted 
nd tewards, courts of tegality; baron courts, commul- 
bes of the peace, and coroners. | 
y berilfdoms were generally, though moſt abſurdly, here- 
tht, by a late act of parliament, they are now all veſted 
1; it being there enacted, That all high- ſheriffs, or ſte- 
ul, for the . be nominated and appointed annually 
ety, his heirs, and ſuccefſors. In regard to the ſherift- 
ud fleward-deputes, it is enacted, That there ſhall only 
veach county, or ſtewardry, who mult be an advocate, of 
wm landing at leaſt. For the ſpace of ſeven years, theſe 
we to be nominated by the king, with ſuch continuance as 
wr (hall thiak fit; after which they are to enjoy their offices 
at culbam, that is, for life, unleſs guilty of ſome offence. 
ger regulations have been likewiſe introduced, highly for 
| of the ſheriffs eourts. | 
mes were formerly part of the ancient royal domain ; and 
xd; had much the ſame power in them, as the ſheriff had in 


ef regality of old, were held by virtue of à royal juriſdic- 
in the lord, with particular immunities and privileges: 
þ vere ſo y" an and ſo extravagant, that all the Scots 
pare now diflolved by an act of parliament. 

courts belong to every perſon who holds a barony of the 
l civil matters, they extend to cauſes not exceeding forty 
ierling; and in criminal caſes, to petty actions of aſſault 
; but the puniſhment is not to exceed twenty ſhillings 
e ſetting the delinquent in the ſtocks for three hours, in 
un Thefe courts, however petty, were, in former days, 
nch the power of life and death, which they have now loſt: 
duns of commiſſaries in Scotland, anſwer to thoſe of the 
weeſan chancellors, the bigheſt of which is kept at Edin- 
merein, before tour judges, actions are pleaded concerns 
= relating to wills and teſtaments ; the right of patronage 
Wical benefices, tithes, divorces, and cauſes of that nature; 
* all other parts of the kingdom, there ſits but one judge 
ues, 

ung to the preſent inſtitution, juſtices of the peace in Scot- 
ce pretty much the ſame powers as thoſe in England. In 
nes, their office, though of very long ſtanding, was inſig- 
bing cramped by the powers of the great feudal tyrants, 
und an at of parliament, that they were not to take cog- 
riots till 15 days after the fact. | 

Wrution of coroners is as old as the reign of Malcolm II. 
Kexilator of Scotland, who lived before the Norman con- 
Ligland, They took cognizance of all breaches of the 


te; and they were required to have clerks to regiſter depo- 
| 3E | tions 


482 8 e O r N 
fitions and matters of fact, as well as verdiQs of jurors | 
however, is at preſent much diſuſed in Scotland. 

The royal burghs in Scotland form, as it were; n comm 
liament, which meets once a year at Edinburgh, confiſtis 
preſentative from each burgh, to conſult” upon the — 
the whole. Their powers are pretty extenſive, and before 
on they made laws relating to ſhipping, to maſters and 
ſhips, to mariners and merchants, by 'whoth they were | 
to manufattures, ſuch as plaiding, linen, and yarn; to'tl 
and packing of fiſh, ſalmon, and herrings; to the impo 
exporting ſeveral commodities : the trade between Scotland 
Netherlands is ſubject to their regulation: they fix the f 
which was formerly at Dort, and is now at Catiphere. T 
ſervator is indeed nominated by the crown, bur then thei 
tion regulates his power, approves his deputies, and apy 
falary ; ſo that, in truth, the whole ſtaple trade is ſubjeQed 
management. Upon the whole, this is a very fingular in 
and ſufficiently proves the vaſt attention which the gore 
Scotland formerly paid to trade. It took its preſent fo 
reign of James III. 1487, and had excellent conſequences 
benefit of commerce. | 


Hiſtory.] Though the writers of ancient Scots hiſtory are 
of ſyſtem and fable, yet it is eaſy to collect, from the Re 
thors, and other evidences, that Scotland was formerly i 
by different people. The Caledonians were, probably, th 


habitants ; the Fits, undoubtedly; were the Britons, » 
forced Northwards by the Belgic Gauls, above fourſcore 
fore the deſcent of Julius Cæſar; and who, ſettling in Scot! 
joined by great numbers of their countrymen, who v 
Northwards by the Romans. The Scots, moſt probabl 
nation of adventurers from the ancient Scythia, who had | 
the armies on the continent, and, as has been already hint 
conquering the other inhabitants, gave their own name to 
try. The tract lying Southwarg of the Forth appears to 
inhabited by the Saxons, and by the Britons, who formed 
dorm of Alcuith, the capital of which was Dumbarton: but 
people, in proceſs of time, were ſubdned by the Scots. 
Having premiſed thus much, it is unneceſſary to insel 
conſtitution of Scotland from its fabulous, or even its e 
It is ſufficient to add, that they ſeem to have been as forvs 
of their Southern neighbours in the arts of war and governl 
It does not appear that the Caledonians, the ancient Ce 
bitants of Scotland, were attacked by any of the Roman 
before Agricola, anno 79. The name of the prince he fot 
was Galdus, by Tacitus named Galgacus; and the hilt 
war is not only tranſmitted with great preeiſion, but cl 
by the remains of the Roman encampments and forts, 1# ; 
gricola in his march towards Dunkeld, the capital 
ans. The brave (land made by Galdus againſt the gre® 
does honour to the valour of both people; and the . 
Caledonian, concerning the freedom and independence] 


* C:* Oz. T. LI A Ns Ih 483. 


u have warmed the noble hiſtorian with the ſame gene · 
It is plain,, however, that Tacitus thought it for the 
Agricola to conceal ſome part of this war; for though he 
ks country men victorious, yet they certainly returned South - 
lte province of the Horeſti, which was the county of Fife, 
proving their advantage. | | 
otherwiſe called Corbred, was, according to the Scots 
= the 21R-in a lineal deſcent from Fergus I. the founder of 
danch); and though this genealogy has of late been diſpu- 
+ nothing can be more certain, from the Roman hiſtories, 
kat the Caledonians, or Scots, were governed by a ſucceſ- 
ne and wiſe princes, during the abode of the Romans in 
@ Their valiant reſiſtance obliged Agricola himſelf, and af · 
the emperors Adrian and Severus, to build the two famous 
ares or walls, which will be deſcribed in our account of 
to defend the Romans from the Caledonians and Scots ; 
c prove that the independence of the latter was never ſub- 


nity was introduced into Scotland about the year 201 of 
lan zra, by Donald I. The Pi&s, who, as beforemen - 
were the deſcendents of the ancient Britons, who had been 
Nenthwards by the Romans, had at this time gained a footing 
thad; and being often defeated by the ancient inhabitants, 
med with the — againſt the Scots and Caledonians, 
we of the ſame original, and conſidered themſelves as one 
; ſo that the Scots monarchy ſuffered a ſhort eclipſe ; but it 
wt with more luſtre than ever under Fergus II. who recover- 
morn; and his ſucceflors gave many ſevere overthrows to 
mans and Britons. | 

a the Romans left Britain in 448, the Scots, as appears by 
2 Britiſh hiſtorian, were a powerful nation, and, in con - 
ith the Pits, invaded the Britons ; and having forced the 
ralls, drove them to the very ſea; ſo that the Britons ap- 
bite Romans for relief; and in the ſamous letter, which they 
wer groans, they tell them, that they had no choice left, 
l being ſwallowed up by the ſea, or periſhing by the ſwords 
arbarians ; for ſo all nations were called who were not Ro- 
der the Roman protection. 

fd was then king of Scotland; and it appears from the 
ories, and thoſe that are leaſt favourable to monarchy, 
x ſccelſion to the crown of Scotland ſtill continued in the fa- 
kergus, but generally deſcended collaterally ; till the ĩincon- 
c al that mode of ſucceſſion were ſo much felt, that by de» 
rell no diſuſe, and it was at laſt ſettled in the right line. 

t the year 796, the Scots were governed by Achaius, 2 
much reſpected, that his friendſhip was courted by Char- 
| and a league was concluded between them, which ſeems 
kid the foundation of an alliance that was held inviolate, 
e monarchy of Scotland continued to exiſt; in ſupport of 
! vere ever ready to ſecond the views of France, to eſ- 
r ule, to fight. her battles, either at home, or in foreign 
o ſometimes to the almoſt extirpation of the beſt blood of 
So their 


484 44 © 0- 7-1: A&W D. 
their nation. This blind partiality to France, notwithllat 
many inviting, and indeed reaſonable overtures from Engl, 
only be accounted for from that ſpirit of liberty which 
through their whole hiſtory, the veneration for the ancien 
their kings, and a jealouſy which every man entertained of 
werful nation, againſt whom nature had placed no} 

The Pits ſtill remained in Scotland as a ſeparate nai 
were powerful enough to make war upon the Scots ; whe 
the year 843, when Kenneth Mac Alpin was king of Seot 
nally ſubdued them, but not in the ſavage manner ment 
ſome hiſtorians, by extermination. For he obliged them 
Res themſelves with their conquerors, by taking their n 
adopting their laws. The ſucceſſors of Kenneth Alpi 
tained almoſt perpetual wars with the Saxons" on the Sou 
and the Danes and other barbarous nations towards the Ea 
being maſters of the ſea, harraſſed the Scots by powerful j 
The latter, however, were more fortunate than the Eng 
while the Danes were erecting a monarchy in England, d 
every where overthrown in Scotland by bloody battles, an 
driven out of the kingdom. The Saxon and Daniſh monare 
then governed England, were not more ſucceſsful againſt th 
who maintained their freedom and independency, not only 
foreigners, but againſt their on kings, when they thoug 
endangered. The feudal law was probably introduced ame 
by Malcolm II. X 9. 1 | 

- Malcolm III. commonly called Malcolm Canmore, from 
lic words, which ſignify a large head, but moſt probably ! 
capacity, was the 86th king of Scotland, from Fergus Lt 
ſed founder of the monarchy ; the 47th from its reſtorer, F 
and the 22d from Kenneth III. who conquered the kingdoi 
Pits. Every reader who is acquainted with the tragedy 
beth, as written by the inimitable Shakeſpear, who keeps 
the facts delivered by hiſtorians, can be no ſtranger to tag, » 
Malcolm's father, and his own hiſtory previous to his mout 
throne in the year 1057. He was a wiſe and magnanimou 


and in no reſpe& inferior to his contemporary the Norman 1 

or, with whom he was often at war. He married Mn. 
daughter to Edward, ſurnamed the Outlaw, ſon to Edmus H 
fide, king of England. By the death of her brother, Edge“ er 


ing, the Saxon right to the crown of England devolved 
polterity of that princeſs, who was one of the wiſelt and 
women of the age; and her daughter, Maud, was according 
ried to Henry a of England. Malcolm, after a glorious re 
killed, with his ſon, treacherouſly, as it is ſaid, arthe lege 
wic, by the beſieged. 

Malcolm III. was ſucceeded by his brother, Donald VI 
was dethroned by Duncan II. whoſe legitimacy was difpotel 
were ſucceeded by Edgar, Alexander, and David, the fons 
colm, who were wiſe and brave princes. ; 
| Notwithſtanding the endeavours of ſome hiſtorians do N 
glories of David's reign, yet he was, perhaps, the great®t 
Þis age, whether we regard him as a man, a warrior, ot 


TE Cor. LI: a WW 2 abs. 
noble actions he performed in the ſervice of his niece, the 
uud, in her competition with king Stephen for the Eng- 
, give us the higheſt idea of his virtues, as they cquld — 
ny of duty and principle, - To him Henry II. the migh- 
er of his age, owed his crown; and his poſſeſſions in Eng - 
ned to the kingdom of Scotland, placed David's power on 
n with that of England, when confined. to this iſland. His 
ad adventures, and the reſources he always found in his 
ge, prove him to have been a hero of the firſt rank. If 
ed to be too laviſh to churchmen, and in his religious en- 
we are to conſider, theſe were the only means by which 
Ithen civilize his kingdom: and the code of laws I have al- 
witioncd to have been drawn up by him, do bis memory 
y bonour. They are ſaid to have been compiled under his 
kn by learned men, whom he aſſembled from all parts of Eu- 
in magnificent abbey of Melroſs. He was ſucceeded by his 
„ Malcolm IV. and he, by William, ſurnamed, from his 
the Lion. William's ſon, Alexander II. was ſucceeded, in 
Y Alexander III. who was a good king. He married: firſt, 
arc , daughter to Henry III. of England, by whom he had 
ler, the prince, who married the earl ot Flander's daughter; 
land Margaret, who married Hangowan, or, as ſome call 
. ſon to Magnus IV. king of Norway, who bare to him a 
m named Margaret, commonly called the maiden of Nor- 
u whom king William's whole poſterity failed, and the crown 
und returned to the deſeendants of David, earl of Hunting - 
kother to king Malcolm IV.- and king Williaa. 
the death of Alexander III. John Baliol, who was grandſon 


F d earl of Huntingdon, by his. elder daughter, Margaret, 
e ert Bruce, (grandfather to the great king Robert Bruce) 
e the ſame earl of Huntingdon, by his younger daughter 
-ps became competitors for the crown of Scotland. The laws of 

u, which were not then fo well eſtabliſhed in Europe as they 


preſent, rendered the caſe very diſficult. Both parties were 
noi ally matched in intereſt ; but after a conſuſed interreg - 
Home years, the great nobility agreed in referring the deci- 
Edward I. of England, the moſt politic, ambitious prince of 
mul He accepted the office of arbiter ; but having long had an 


dg lie crown of Scotland, he revived ſome obſolete abſurd claims 
d &pendency upon that of England; and finding that Baliol 
ed to hold it by that diſgraceful tenure, Edward awarded 
dun ; but afterwards dethroned him, and treated him as a ſlave, 


ei Saliol's reſenting it. 8 | 
| this, Edward uſed many bloody endeavours to annex their 
Otis own ; but though they were often defeated, the inde- 
Scots never were ſubdued. They were indeed but few, com- 
ute thoſe in the intereſt of Edward and Baliol, which was the 
ad for ſume time were obliged to temporize. Edward a- 
nſelt of their weakneſs and his own power. He accepted 
ral lurrender of the crown from Baliol, to whom he allow- 
— but detained him in England; aud ſent every noble- 
*vtiand, whom he in the Jcalt ſuſpected, to different priſons 


& 


436 $. QC: 0:4 T. LT Av No 
in or near London. He then forced the Scots to ſign inl 
of their ſubjection to him: and moſt 'barbarouſly carried off, 
ſtroyed, all the monuments of their hiſtory, and the cid 
their independency ; and particularly the famous 
which is (till to be ſeen. in Weſtminſter- abbey. | 
© Thoſe fevers proceedings, while they rendered the Scots 
of their flavery, revived in them the ideas of their freed 
Edward, finding their ſpirits were not to be ſubdued, endes 
to careſs them, and affected to treat them on the footing of a 
lity with his own ſabje&s, by projecting an union, the chief 
of which have fince taken place between the two kingdom 
Scots patriots treated this project with diſdain; and united 
the brave William Wallace, the trueſt hero of his age, to e 
Englith.. Wallace performed actions that entitle him to et 
nown, in executing this ſcheme. Being, however, no more 
private gentleman, and his popularity daily increafing, the 
nobility, among whom was Robert Bruce, the ſon of the fi 
petitor, began to ſuſpe& that he had an eye upon the crown, 
ally after he had defeated the earl. of Surry, Edward's vie 
Scotland, in the battle of Stirling, and had reduced the g. 
of Berwick and Roxburgh, and was declared by the States « 
land their protector. Their jealouſy operated ſo far, that the 
ed violent cabals againſt the brave Wallace. Edward, upd 
once more invaded Scotland, at the head of the moſt numere 
beſt diſciplined: army England had ever ſeen, for it confitted of 
foot, 3000 horſemen, completely armed, and 4000 light 
and was attended by a fleet to ſupply it with proviſions. 
beſides the troops who joined him in Scotland, formed an 
body; fo that Edward was obliged to divide it, _— | 
mand of 40,000 of his beſt troops to himſelf, With theſe he 
ed the Scots army under Wallace at Falkirk, while their « 
ran fo high, that the brave regent was deſerted by Cummi 
molt powerful nobleman in Scotland, and at the head of the 
viſion of his countrymen. Wallace, whoſe troops did not 
. $0,000, being thus betrayed, was defeated with vaſt laſs, bu 
an orderly retreat; during. which-he found means to have a 
rence with Bruce, and to convince him of his error in join 
Edward. Wallace ſtill continued in arms, and pertormec 
nt actions againſt the Engliſh ; but was betrayed into the 
of Edward, who moſt ungenerouſly put him to death at Lot 
a traitor ; but he died himſelf, as he was preparing to renes 
vaſion of Scotland with a ſtill more deſolating ſpirit of ambi 
ter having deſtroyed, according to the belt hiltorians, 100,05 
inhabitants. 

Bruce died ſoon aſter the battle of Falkirk; but not before 
inſpired his ſon, who was a priſoner at large about the Eugh | 
with the glorious reſolution of vindicating his own rights, 
country's independency. He eſcaped from London, d 
own hand killed Cumming, for his attachment to Edward; 
ter collecting a few patriots, among whom were his on - 
thers, he aſſuted the crown; but was defeated by the Engi 
had a great army in Scotland) at the battle of Methven. 


- 


* vs 
tw 


ran En OD: oa 


iu fed, with one or two friends, to the Weſtern Ifles and 
#$%nland, where his fatigues and ſufferings were as inexpreſ- 
s the 8 which be and his few friends (the Lord - 
peſpecially ) them, was incredible. 'Though his wife and 
& were ſent priſoners to England, where the beſt of his friends; 
of his brothers, were put to death, yet, ſuch was his per- 
pe cit, that he recovered all Scotland, excepting the caltle 
Hino, and improved every advantage that was given him by 
ned conduct of Edward II. who raiſed an army more nu- 
ul better appoĩnted ſtill than that of his father, to make a 
gueſt of Scotland. It is faid that it conſiſted of 300, oo, 
nut be underſtood as including the foreigne,s attending the 
$hich in thoſe days were very numerous; but it is admitted 
hands, that it did not conſiſt of ſo few as 100,000 fighting 
wie that of Bruce did not exceed 30,000 ; but all of them 
bo had been bred up in a deteſtation of tyranny. 14 
und, who was not deficient in point of courage, led this migh- 
wrards Stirling, then beſieged by Bruce; who had choſen, 
te greateſt judgment, a camp near Bannock burn. The chief 
nder Edward were, the earls of Glouceſter, Hereford, Pem- 
add Sir Giles Argenton. Thoſe under Bruce were, his own 
kr Sir Edward, who, next to himſelf, was reckoned to be the 
tight of Scotland; his nephew, Randolph, earl of Murray, 
& young lord Walter, high-ſteward of Scotland. Edward's 
& of the Scots army was furious beyond diſpute, and required 
courage and firmneſs of Bruce and his friends to reſiſt it, which 
i ſo efſeAually, that they gained one of the moſt complete 
& that is recorded in hiſtory. The great loſs of the Engliſn 
pon the braveſt part of their troops, who were led on by Ed- 
In perſon againſt Bruce himſelf. The Scots writers make the 
Ache Englith to amount to 50,000 men. Be that as it will, 
trtainly never was a more total defeat, though the conquer- 
4000, The flower of the Engliſh nobility were either killed 
a priſoners. Their camp, which was immenſely rich, and 
ed for the purpoſe rather of a triumph than a campaign, fell 
& hands of the Scots; and Edward himſelf, with a few fol- 
w laroured by the goodneſs of their horſes, were purſued by 
z tothe gates of Berwick, from whence he eſcaped in a fiſh- 
Nat This great and deciſive battle happened in the year 1314. 
*rmander of Robert's reign was a ſeries of the moſt glorious 
; nd ſo well did his nobility underſtand the principles of 
erty, and fo unfettered they were by religious conſiderations, 
an letter they ſent to the pope, they ackrowledged that they 
ide Baliol for debaſing the crown by holding it of England; 
W they would do the ſame by Robert if he thould make the 
pt. Robert having thus delivered Scotland, ſent his bro- 
'd to Ireland, at the head of an army, with which he 
il the greateſt part of that kingdom, and was proclaimed 
7; but by expoſing himſelf too much, he was killed. Ro- 
Ne his death, which happened in 1328, made an advanta- 
bare with England; and when he died he was acknowledged 
Uputably the greateſt hero of his age. | 9 | 


—— 


— — —6 ́— 


ä 


— 


— — 
. 
<= — 


DS 
* 


1371. | 


— —— — 


— —— —>YT 8 a x. MY Co 
— — oor — 8 
* 


was beloved by the people. He had received an excellent & 
in England during the reigns of Henry IV. and V. whe 


1 
1 
9 
1 C 
| 
| 
\ 
. 


caſtle of Roxburgh, which was defended by the Engliſh, | 


K 
* 


438 S 6'6. TL rt © WER 
: The glory of the Scots may be faid to have been in 
der Robert I. who was ſucceeded by his ſon, David IL 
virtuous prince, but his abilities, both in war and peace 
elipſed by his brother-in-law, and enemy, Edward HL, of 
whoſe filter he married. Edward, who was as keen as 
— 8 — upon the conqueſt of Scotland, eſpouſed the 
liol, ſon to Baliol, the original competitor.- His proces 
firſt amazingly rapid; and he and Edward defeated the re 
in many bloody battles ; but Baliol was at laſt'driven ur 
ſurped kingdom by the Scots . patriots. David had the 
to be taken priſoner by the Engliſh at the battle of Dark 
after continuing above eleven years in captivity, be paid 
marks for his rauſom ; and died in peace, without iſſue, in 


The crown of Scotland then devolved upon the ſamily « 
by its head having been married to the daughter of Robert 
firſt king of that name was Robert II. a wiſe and brave pri 
was ſucceeded by his ſon Robert III. whoſe age and infir 
qualified him from reigning ; ſo that he was forced to trull 
verament to his brother, the duke of Albany, an ambitiou 
who ſeems to have had an eye to the crown for his own 
Robert, upon this, attempted to ſend his ſecond ſon to Fri 
he was moſt ungenerouſly intercepted by Henry IV. of 6 
during the continuance of a truce ; and after ſuffering a cap 
19 years, he was obliged to pay an 'exhorbitant ranſom. 
the impriſonment of James in England, the military glor 
Scots was carried to its greateſt height in France, where 
ported that tottering manarchy againſt England, and their 
obtained ſome of the firſt titles of the kingdom. 

James, the firſt of that name, upon his return to Scot” | 
covered great talents for government, enacted many wile ia 


the feudal ſyſtem refined from many of the imperſections why?" 


| adhered to it, in his own kingdom, he determined there r 


bridge the overgrown power of the nobles, and to recover {i 
as had been unjuſtly wreſtled from the crown during his | 
and the preceding reigns ; but the execution of theſe del 
him his life, being murdered in his bed by ſome of the chie 
ty, in 1437, and the 44th year of his age. 

A long minority ſucceeded ; but James II. would prov 


_ equalled the greateſt of his anceſtors, both in warlike and QI tt 


tues, had he not been ſaddenly killed by the accidental burns ur 
cannon, in the thirtieth year of his age, as he was del 


Suſpicion, indolence, immoderate attachment to favoi 
many of the errors of a feeble mind, are viſible in the fer 
James III. and his turbulent reign was cloſed by 4 rebel 
ſubjects, being ſlain in battle in 1488, aged thirty-five. 

His ſon, James IV. was the moſt accompliſhed prince d er 
he was naturally generous and brave; he loved 
delighted in war, and was eager to obtain fame. 


Ee cap! 


3 
1 | 

* 
Fo”. 


3 * — 3 * | 
5 Cc 0 k r * In N r D. * 


Ve cochtmeßpee of his ſubjefts, ſo that they rivalled the 
bes: and the court of James, at the time of his mar- 


* 


1 


ce Story VIT's daughter, was ſplendid and reſpectable. 
of ghance could not cure him of his family -diſtemper A pre- 
* be French; in whoſe cauſe he raſhly entered, and was 


uno 1513, and the fartieth year of his age. 

rity of his ſon, James V. was long and turbulent: aud 
wr op, he married two French ladies; the firſt being 

phe king of France, and the latter of the houſe of Guile. 

the court of ſefhon, enacted many ſalutary laws, and 


At this time the balance of power was ſo equally poiſed 
& contending princes of Europe, that James's friendſhip 
jby the pope, the emperor, the king of France, and his 


its, But James took no ſhare in foreign affairs; he ſeem- 
v initate his predeceſſors in their attempts to humble the 
pd the doctrines of the reformation beginning to be pro- 
Weotland, he gave way, at the inſtigation of the clergy, 


Ved w perſecution, though it is generally believed, that, had 
r ould have ſeized all the church- revenues, in imitation. 
= hut he died in the ziſt year of his age, anno 1542, of 


n affront which his arms had ſuſtained in an ill-judged 

wainlt the Engliſh. 

whiter and ſucceſſor,” Mary, was but a few hours old at 
ter father's death, The hiſtory of her beauty, and her 

are alike famous in the annals of Europe. It' is ſuffi- 

bay, that during her minority, and while ſhe was wife 

II. of France, the reformation advanced in Scotland: 


zen riſe to much controverſy, the reſult of which has 
kon favourable to her memory. The conſequence of her 
kath was a rebellion, by which ſhe was driven into Eng- 
* ſhe was, through the jealouſy of queen Elifabeth, de- 


kin 1586-7, and the 46th year of her age. | 

n, James VI. of Scotland, ſucceeded in right of his blood 
VII. upon the death of queen Eliſabeth, to the Eng- 
aſter ſhewing great abilities in the government of Scot- 
union of the two crowns, in fact, deſtroyed the inde · 
u it impoyeriſhed the people of Scotland; for the ſeat of 
being removed to England, their trade was checked, 
ture neglected, and their gentry obliged to ſeek: for 
er countries, James, after a ſplendid, Fac troubleſome 
dis three kingdoms, left them, in 1625, to his ſon, the 


ce received the firſt check from the Scots”; and that, had 
ior them, he would eaſily have ſubdued his Engliſh re- 
wplor:d the affiltance of the Scots; but afterwards, a- 


1 . gains 


g/ 


Wit flower of his nobility, by the Engliſh, in the battle 


oted the trade of Scotland, particularly the working of 


VIII. of England, from all whom he received magni- 


alled to the throne of her anceſtors while a widow, ſhe 
town couſin-german, the lord Darnly, whoſe untimely 


loner for 18 years, and afterwards beheaded by order ok 


= 
: * 
5 1 r. 4. 
= 
- - - * 
AI 


Charles I. It is well known that the deſpotic principles 


- 
A 4 _ 
KELS LARS © 


"i 


# 
Ty > 
is ant. ae 


Wo 


Lk 


La a ans 


7 5 -y F 
— 3 


1 
* F 
6, 
[| 
y 'Y - 
1 " 84 
+ 4 
j . 
wn 
7 4 
0 : 
4 4 
3.49 3 
3 
\ \ 
- 
* pl ' » 
Hh 


wi 


A | 2 j I. 1 
1 ” ' 54 A / , | | 
% E L A RS 


well, at the battle of Worceſter ; after which, to the tins 


_ reign, and that of his deluded brother, James VIEWS 
II. of England, as well as of kin liam, Thou 
royal mn 


and offered them their own terms, if they would agree ta't 
-porate union as it now ſtands. It was Jong before els 


from conviction, and partly through the force uf money 1 
| hiſtory of Scotland becomes the ſame with that of 


— 


n — 
- * 9 
4 un \ off 


* N 
. uf 
_ 
7 


9 


ainſt all the ties of honour and humanity, f, Wn 
u 1648. r wang 
The Scots ſaw their error when it was too late | adn ; 
ral bloody, but unfortunate attempts, to fave the pn 
ſtore his ſon, Charles II. That prinoe was finally gan 


ſtoration, the uſurper and the army gave law toe 
in another place, touched upon the moſt material mann 


being a friend to Scotland, that, relying on 
parliament, ſhe was brought to the brick of ruin. *. 

The ſtate of parties in England, to the iccellion af an 
was ſuch, that the Whigs, once. more, had recent 


the Scots parliament would liſten to the propoſals hand 


among the needy nobility, it was agreed to 


# * 
4% LEM 
- 
. 
4 
: * 


Py „ = ” Py" 


! f , ” 
SIC d 
\ dat „ 
I R E L AAA 
* 1 1 8 ws.” 
. . * * 4 * 


0 
* 


_. , XR. 
SITUATION, BounDARIES, AND, Exrant 


H E iſland of Ireland is fituated on the Wenn 
between 6 and 10 degrees Weſt longitude 
and 55 degrees 20 minutes North latitude: » Then 
cial content of this kingdom is-in. length 285 mie 
North, to Miſſenhead, South; and from the Eallt pan 
the Weft part of Mayo, its greateſt breadth miles; 
tains 11,067,7i2 Iriſh plantation acres, which ma 
acres of Engliſh ſtatute meaſure, and is held , 
England and Wales as 18 to 30. From the Kala 
to St David's in Wales, it is reckoned 45-milet barns 
tween Donhagadee and. Portpatric in Scotland n__ 


twenty miles, * 19 


0, 882 

Name and Diviſions, ancient and modern. ] The nns 
Iriſh Erin, probably takes its riſe from a Phang 
ſignifying the fartheſt habitation Weſtward." - 


* O38 


Counties. Chief True. | 
| Dublin 4 Den 


C * 


Oer 


123 


A T I. XN I 


K 

= 
» Ts 

mY : 

\ 

* 

N 1 1 

1 


4 


may 


, + \ 19 \ 4 Y Ld j p . 
: * * 
- ” 
» <a l 7 
\ = 
% 4 
Mile 0 © 


eee, -e N "IF as 


— 9 , 4 bad 
4 4 * 24 TY * ay _ 
. 


„5 


| 1 ix K 


p 


L A 


32 


& 8 N R ""—_— 
ak "ISA N * 


N D. age 
. 101 ©. 12 Counties. __ Chief Towns. 
| Louth ] heda 0 | 
5. Wicklow +. - hs £4, : 
-- Wexford . | 
- | Longford 
4 Trim | 
I Weſt Meath  Mollenger / 
I King's County Philipſtown 
| 2 County Maryborough 
I Kilkenny, Kilkenny 
Kildare Kildare 
I Carlow Carlow - 
Down Down : p 
- | Armagh Charlemont 
| Monaghan Monaghan 
ie. Cavan 
z Counties, J Antrim _ © Carrickfergus 
I | Londonderry Derry 
Tyrone * Omagh 
| Fermanagh Enniſkillen 
g | Donegall | Donegall 
Leitrim . Leitrim 
Roſcommon — — | 
I Mayo linro 
* Count: Sligo Sligo 
Galway Galway 
Clare Ennis 
Cork Cork 
3 Kerry Tralee 
| 5 Counties. ] Limerick Limerick 
, Tipperary Clommel 
Waterford Waterford. 


, Seaſons, and Soil.) The climate of Ireland differs little 
of England, with which it would- almoſt perfectly agree, 
Þ@ (oil equally improved. Uncultivated ſwamps, bogs, and 
Wd uninhabited banks of rivers, naturally produce fogs and 
Nome thickneſs of air, as is the caſe with ſome parts of 
Iitlelf but upon the whole, the air of the cultivated part 
In as mild and ſalubrious, and as friendly to human na- 
that of England; ſeme have thought that it is even more ſo. . 
Wil of Ireland in general is fruitful, 
 itielf, when properly cultivated. ' 
x cattle and ſheep, and the [rilh wool is excellent. The 
and, indeed, incredible ſupplies of ſalt proviſions, (fiſh 
U bipped at Cork, and carried to all parts of the world, 
barcely to be exhibited in any other country, of the na- 
of the Iriſh ſoil. As to the ſeaſons of Ireland, they 
from thoſe of Great Britain, in the ſame latitude. We 


haps equal to that of 
reland rears vaſt num- 


mult 


% 4 4 
C « * LAKE. 0 — 
b N 3 4 
1 > "= * . W . * — 


muſt not here forget that Ireland is: yeaharkable for bro 


nouriſhing no venomous creatures. 


2 off, , „ 
. Rivers, Bays, Harbours avid Lakes.) The F en. * 
Lough Allen, in the 'county of Leitrim, fefves as a boy 
tween 2 and the three other provinces, and afte 
of 150 miles, forming in its progreſs many beautiful lakes 
into the Atlantic ocean, between Kerryepoint and Loop-he 
it is nine miles broad. The navigation of this river is in 
by a ridge of rocks ſpreading quite acrofs it, South of Kia 
Ban falls into the ſea near Colerain, the Boyne falls into 8t 
_ channel at Drogheda, as does the Liffy at the bay of Dal 
is only remarkable for watering that capital; where it fort 
diious harbour. The Barrow, the Noer, and the Suit, 
=, + South part of the kingdom, and after. uniting their {treat 
Ross, they fall into the channel at Waterford haven. - _ 
8 The moſt conſiderable harbours, &c. are; thoſe of Carrie 
+ Strangford, Dundrum, Carlingford, - Dundalk, Dublin, 
2 ford, Dungarvan, Cork, Kinſale, Baltimore, Glandore, 
2 nus, Bantry, Kilmare, Dingle, Shannonmouth, Galway, 
Donegall, Killebegs, Longh-Swilly, and Lough - Foyle. 
Ireland contains a vaſt number of lakes, or, as they were 
Iy called, loughs, particularly in the provinces of Ulſter 
naught. Many of them produce large "quantities of fine fi 
the great lake Neagh, between the countiesof Antrim, Do 
Armagh, is remarkable for its petrifyiag quality. The Irif 
fond of loughs, that they often give that term to inlets of 
Ireland, when compared with ſome ethereguatries, is far f 
.- Ing mountainous. The mountains of - Mourne and Iſeah, 
county of Down, are reckoned among ſome of the highel 
kingdom, of which Slieu-Denard has * calculated at a 
dicular height of 1056 yards. Many other mountains-are f 
Ireland, but they contain little or nothing particular, if we 
the fabulous hiſtories that are annexed to ſome of them. 
theſe mountains contain in their bowels beds of mines, m 
coals, quarries of tone, flate and marble, with veins 0b N 
and copper. 1 | 


Foreſt. ] The chief foreſts in Ireland lye in Leinſter, the 
and Queen's counties, and thoſe of Wexford and Carlow. 
ſter there are great foreſts, and in the county of Donegal 

the North part of Tyrone; alſo in the county of Fermanach, 
\- Loughlin Earne, and in the North. part of. the county of 
wherein is ſome good timber, and the oak is eſteemed. as g 
any of the-Englith growth, and as fit ſor ſhip-buildinge. |, 


Metal: and Minerali.] The mines of Treland are late diſcc 
Several contain filver and lead, and it is ſaid that 30 pounes' 
lead ore produce a pound of ſilver; but the richelt filver mn 
Wicklow. A copper and lead mine have been diſcovered 
perary, as · likewiſe iron ore, and exeellent free ſtone for 9! 
Some of the Iriſh marble quarries contain a kind of pop" 


CERES. = EEeG@alrnEg ASC A 


- 


la Meth 
: * 
* 


87 Cy OTL AAN D. 5 an 


{ with white, Quarries of fine flate are found in moſt 
The coals that are dug at Kilkenny emit very little ſmoke, 
Lins a chryſtalline ſtream which has no ſediment. Thoſe 
= with the ſerenity of the air in that place, had given 
& vell known proverb, That Kilkenny comaias fire without 5 
ner without mud, and air without fog. 


and Animal. ont, by Sea and Land.] There is We 
Els under this head that is peculiar to Ireland, her produe . 
pg much the ſame as in England and Scotland.” "Ireland 
xcellent turf and moſs, which are of vaſt ſervice for firing, 
nod and coals are ſcarce, A few wolves were fortierly 
la leland, but they are now almoſt erterminated by their 
gs, which are much larger than maſtifs, ſhaped like grey- 
jet as gentle and governable as ſpaniels. en 


anti, Manner, Cufloms and Diverſions.)} As it is of great , 
ence to aſcertain as near as poſſible the numbers of inhabi- 1 
lrelend of both religions, we fhall give them aceording to Y 

lacounts, as they ſtood in the four provinces in 17393. 


Proteſtant families. Popiſh families. 


rr 


— 62.620 — — 38,459 N 

| SD 1 93436 . 
W.-H — — e409 -— 
= 4299 8 9 44-133 1 
Total 105, 94 Total 281,423 1 


In five to each family in the country, and ten for Dublin, 
" for Cork city, makes in all 2,015,229 ſouls. . | 
ld Iriſh, or, as they are termed by the proteſtants, the mere 
re generally repreſented as an ignorant, uncivilized, and 
Mg fort of people. Impatient of abuſe, and injury, they are 
alc aud violent in all their affections, but quick of apprehen- 
vurteous to ſtrangers, and patient of hardſhips. - Twugh in 
tes there is, perhaps, little difference between them and 
e uninformed part of their neighbours, yet their barbariſms 

I eaſy to be accounted for from accidental than natural cauſes 
be greateſt number of them are papiſts, and it is the-intereſt 
Eprielts, who govern them with an abſolute ſway, to keep 
ade moſt profound ignorance. They alſo lye under many le- 
Wilties, which in their own country diſcourages the exertion | 
tir mental and bodily faculties 3 but when employed-in'the 
2 foreign princes, they are diſtinguiſhed for intrepidity, 

and fidelity. Many of their ſurnames have an O, or Mac, Z 
L before them, which ſignify grandfon and ſon: formetly the = 
ted by their chiefs only, or ſuch as piqued themſelves upon. i 
Vquity of their families. Their muſic is the bagpipe, but 9 
Ues are generally of a melancholy ſtrain; though ſome of the 
Gut lively, and when ſung by an Iriſhman, extremely = 

3 ver 


wo — 


- a | 
14996 CO 1 RAELLY AD Wy 
verting. The old Iriſh is generally ſpoken in the interior g 
em. where ſome of the old uncouth/cuftoins Bill 
icularly their funeral how lings; but this cuſtom may be 
in many cquntries of the continent. Their euſtom of placing 
corpſe before their doors, laid out upon tables, havin a plate 
. the body to excite the charity of paſſengers, is iſed even 
| ſkirts of Dublin; and their convivial meetings on Sunday afte 
dancing-to the bagpipe, but more often quarreling among 
ſelves, is offenſive to every ſtranger. ? 
Their wealth conſiſts of a cow, ſometimes a horſe, ſome ve 
and a ſpot for potatoes. Coarſe bread, 'potatoes, eggs, mil 
' ſometimes filb, conſtitute their food. For however plentiful 
fields may be ſtocked with cattle, theſe poor natives ſeldon 
butcher's meat of any kind, Their children, plump, robuſt 
hearty, ſcarcely know the uſe of cloaths, and are not aſhan 
gaze upon ſtrangers, or make their appearance upon the rc 
that primitive manner. *. | ok 3. 


| 


- Religion. ] The eſtabliſhed religion and eccleſiaſtical diſciph 
Ireland is the ſame with ——— the bulk 
people, in the moſt uncultivated parts, popery, that too 
moſt abſurd, illiberal kind, is prevalent. The Iriſh papiſts & 
tain their nominal biſhops and dignitaries, who ſubſiſt on the 

_ tary contributions of their votaries. But even the blind ſuba 
of the latter to their clergy, does not prevent proteſtantiſm 
making a very rapid progreſs there in towns and communities. | 
efforts have been made ever ſince the days of James L in 
free ſchools for civilizing and converting the Iriſh papilts. T! 
ſtitution of the incorporated ſociety for promoting Engliſh pre 
working-ſchools, though of no older date than 1917, bas be 
mazingly ſucceſsful, as have many inſtitutions of the ſame ky 
introducing induſtry and knowledge among the Iriſh. 

Ireland contains at leaſt as many ſectaries as England, pat 
larly preſbyterians, anabaptiſts, quakers, and methodiſts, wi 
all of them connived at and tolerated. _ | 


Archbiſhoprics and Biſhoprics.] The archbiſhoprics are four, 
h, Dublin, Tuam, and Caſhell,, | 
he biſhoprics are '18, viz. Clogher, Clonfert, Cloyne, « 

Derry, Down, Dromore, Elphin, Kildare, Kilallas, Leig 
Limmeric, Meath, Offory, Raphoe, Waterford, Kilmore, and | 


| age. The language of the Iriſh is fundamentally the 
. with the Britiſh and Welch, and a dialect of the celtic, wt 
; made uſe of by the Scots Highlanders, oppeſite the Iriſh coal 


.  Univer/ities.] Ireland contains but one univerſity (if a collegt 
be called ſuch) which is that of Dublin, founded by que 3 
beth, under the title of the College of the holy and undivided 
nity, near Dublin, with a power of conferring de 
maſters, and doctors, in all the arts and faculties. At preſ 
conſiſts of a provoſt, ſeven ſenior; thirteen junior felony 1 


= = = == 


"Wy 


OT wa 
FL. 1 l. 


nne = 8 495 

bad of the houſe; who have maintainance upon the foun- 
The viſitors" are the chancellor, or vice- chancellor, aud 

200 of Dublin. 1 eonath oft Bi. N 1 41 nes 
FN alm 0) - 


- = " 1671 111 5826 £6 VEL a4 1 $ 
ue and Curioſities, Natural und Artificial.) The Triſh goſ- 
nd gerfalcons are celebrated for their ſhape and beauty. 

| is thought to have been formerly a native of this 
their horns being ſometimes dug up of ſo great à fize, that 
wr has been found near eleven feet from the tip of the right 
whe tip of the left; but the greateſt natural curioſity in Ire- 
«the Giant's Cauſeway in the county of Antrim, about eight ' 
dem Colerain, which is thus deſeribed by Dr Pococke, 
of Offory, a celebrated traveller and antiquary. He Tays, 
he meaſured the moſt Weſterly point at high water, to the. 
wee of 460 feet from the cliff but was told, that at low water 
taded 60 feet further upon a deſcent, till it was loſt in the fea. 
neafuring the Eaftern point, he found it '540 feet from the 
ud aw as much more of it as of the other, where it winds to 
bf, and is like that loſt in the water. | X 8 
* cauſeway is compoſed of pillars all of angular ſhapes from 
dies to eight. The Eaſtern point where it joins the rock; ter - 
ts in a perpendicular cliff, formed by the upright ſides of the 
b fome of which are 23 feet 4 inches high. Each pillar con- 
i ſeveral joints or ſtones, lying one upon another, from ſix 
to about a foot in thickneſs ; and what is very ſurpriſing, ſome 
&&{ joints are ſo convex, that their promihences are nearly quar- 
if pheres, round each of which is a ledge, which holds them 
ther with the greateſt firmneſs, every ſtone being concave on 
er ide, and fitting in the exacteſt manner the convexity of the 
art of that beneath it. The pillars are from one to two feet 
eter, and generally conſiſt of about 40 joints, molt of which 
very eaſily, and one may walk along upon the tops of the 
us far as to the edge of the water. 
lu this is not the moſt ſingular part of this extraordinary cu- 
| the cliffs themſelves being (till more ſurpriſing. From the 
* which is of black ſtone, to the height of about 60 feet, they 
nided at equal diſtances by. ſtripes of a reddiſh Rone, that re- 
$4 cement, about four inches in thickneſs ; upon this there 
Mer ſtratum of the ſame black ſtone, with a ſtratum five inches 
ofthe red. Over this is another ſtratum ten feet thick, di- 
un the ſame manner; then a ſtratum of the red ſtone twenty 
led, and above that a ſtratum of upright. pillars ; above theſe 
© ſees another ſtratum of black ſtone, twenty feet bigh ; and 
its again another ſtratum of upright piilars, riſing in ſome 
do the tops of the cliffs, in others not ſo high, and in others 
Livre it, where they are called the chimneys. The face of 
ls extends about three Engliſh miles.“ 


'1 


4 Towns, Forts, and other Dublin, the capital of Ireland, 

ewe public aud private. is in magnitude and the num- 
tanta, the ſecond city in the Britiſh dominions; much 

de le of Stockholm, Copenhagen, Berlin, and * 


as 
It is built in the form of a ſquare, about two miles and-a b 
| Go nliles Weſt from Holyhead, in North Wales, the uſual g 


ons bay, to which it gives name, upon the river Liffey, wh 
vides it almoſt into two equal parts, and is banked in thro 


cuſtomhouſe, or centre of the city, is but ſmall, hen compa 


+ mercial purpoſes ; but of late a new ſtreet has been opened, le 
A new exchange is built, the firſt ſtone of which was laid by 


takings and embelliſhments are in agitation, 


moderate ſtreet, a proportionable height, and three miles in le 


panies, by virtue of an old charter, are obliged to perambulet 


# + 2 
1 


bs 1 * N 6 e 4 0 N * Y 5 — 4 
N 4 * 2. * . 
, * : 7 


, 7 1 
— *  m* 
W "> 0») A . Pe. 
© . n 
FF 3 — 4. 8 
„ 8 0 


and nearly as 
inhabitants. 


puck in and is ſuppoſed to contain 
t is ſituated 290 miles North-Weſt of Lande 


the paſſage veſſels between Great Britain and Ieland. Dubli 
about ſeven miles from the ſea, at the bottom of a large and 


whols-length of the city, on both Gdes, which form ſpacious 
where veſſels below. the firſt bridge load and unload before th 
chants doors and warehouſes. A ſtranger upon entering the 
Baohlin, which is about ſeven, miles broad, and in ftormy 1 
extremely. dangerous, is agreeably ſurpriſed-with the beauti 
pe on each fade, and the diſtant view of Wicklow mountait 

ublin, from its low ſituation, makes no great appearance. 
The river Liffey, though nayigable for ſea veſſels as far 


the Thames at London. Over it are two handſome bridges, 
built of ſtone, in imitation of that at Weſtminſter, and three 
that have little to recommend them, Hitherto the centre of 
lin towards the cuſtomhouſe was crouded and inconveniant fo 


from Eſſex bridge to the caſtle, where the lord lieutenant 
Townſend; the then lord lieutenant, and ſeveral other uſeful t 


The linen-hall was erected at the public expence; and opet 
the year 1728, for the reception of ſuch linen cloths as were | 
to Dublin for ſale, for which there are convenient apartment 
is entirely under the direction of the truſtees for the encourag 
of the linen manufactory of Ireland, who are compoſed of th 
chancellor, the primate, the archbiſhop of Dublin, and the 
pal part of the nobility and gentry. | ; 

The front of Trinity college, extending above 300 feet, 1s 
of Portland ſtone in the fineſt ſtate. < . 4 

The parliament-houſe was begun in 1929, and finiſhed in 
at the expence of 40,0001. This ſuperb pile is in general © 
Ionic order, and is at this day juſtly accounted one of the fo 
architectural beauties. The portico, in particular is, perhaps, 
out parallel; the internal parts have alſo many beauties, an 
manner in which the building is lighted, has been much ad 
But one of the greateſt and moſt laudable undertakipgs that thi 
can boaſt of, is the building of a ſtone wall about the breadth 


to confine the channel of the bay, and to ſhelter veſſels in It 

weather. | | 
The civil government of Dublin is by a lord mayor, Er. tht 

as in London. Every third year, the lord mayor, and the 24 


city, and its liberties, which they call riding the 1 
Dublin are two large theatres, that are generally well filled, 
which ſerve as 4 kind of nurſery to thoſe in London. 18 


* 


F. 469 


unh churches, 8 chapels, 3 churches for French, and 1 fot 
N | ts, 7 preſbyterian meeting-houſes, 1 for methodiſts 
and 16 Roman catholic chapels. A royal hoſpi 

& Chelſea, for invalids, a lying-in hoſpital, with gardens, 
of laid out in the fineſt taſte ; an hoſpital for lunaties, built 
nous Dean Swift, who himſelf died a lunatic ; and ſundry 
opitals for patients of every kind. Some of the churches 
inn lately rebuilt, and others are rebuilding tn a more elegant 


As deſervedly reckoned the ſecond city in Ireland, in magni- 
&hes, and commerce. It lies 129 miles South-Weſt of Dubs 
contains above 8 100 houſes, inhabited chiefly by proteſtants. 
men is deep and well ſheltered from all winds ; but ſmall 
uh come up to its quey, and ſtand about ſeven miles up the 
lx. Waterford is reckoned next to Cork for riches and ſhip- 
is commanded by Duncannon fort, and on the Weſt ſide 
torn is a citadel. Limeric is a handſome, populous, com- 
w, lrong city, and lies on both fides the Shannon. 
ki is a large ſeaport and trading town at the mouth of the 
Auer, where it falls into Carrickfergus bay. Downpatric 
buribing linen manufacture. Carrickfergus, (or Knock#er- 
$by ſome deemed the capital town of the province, has a 

rand caltle, but little commerce. Derry (or Londonderry 
poſt uſually called) ſtands on Lough-Foyl, is a ſtrong little 
ming ſome linen manufactures, with ſome commerce and 
bw, All this extreme North part of Ireland is ſituated fo near 
Wand, that they are iu ſight of each others coaſts, Donegal, 
maty town of the ſame name, (otherwiſe called the county of 
eel) is a place of ſome trade; as is likewiſe Enniſkilling. All 
Aal mentioned places, and many more (though leſs conſider- 
ks) are chiefly and moſt induſtriouſly employed in the manu- 
we of linen and linen thread, to the great benefit of the whole 
kn, which, by its vaſt annual exportations of linen into Eng- 
$ enabled to pay for the great annual importations from 
Bd into Ireland; and likewiſe to render the money conſtant- 
mn from Ireland into Epgland by her abſentees, leſs grievous 


ad has ſeveral forts and garriſons, that ſerve as comfortable 
to military officers. The chief are Londonderry and Cul- 
in, Cork, Limeric, Kinſale, Duncannon, Roſs-Caſtle, Dub- 
Wrlemont, Galway, Carrickfergus, Maryborough, and Ath- 
Lich of theſe forts is furniſhed with deputy-governors, un- 


"us denominations, who have pecuniary proviſions from the 
ent 


wrce and Manufacturer. ] Her chief exports eonſiſt of linen 
Jun, lawns and cambrics, which are encouraged by the 
erernment. Wool and bay yarn are by law allowed to be 
«to England only, but great quantities of both are ſmuggled 

countries, The other exports are horſes and black cattle, 
"al, green hides, ſome tanned leather, calf-ſkins dried, tal- 
„candles, cheeſe, ox and cow-horns, 0x-hair, horſe- 


3 R hairy 


* 2 . 9 
FR a pe ju , . - — N | | 
2 ao - * 7 3 Y CIP ak” * is. ng -_ 
- 


— 


1 N © M as 


hair, lead, in no great proportion, copper-ore, herrinos. al 
rabbit-ſkins, and furr, otter-ſkias, goat-ſkins, — 


Conſfitution and Government.] The conſlitution of the Ioih 
ment, as it ſtands at preſent, with regard to diltributiye ; 
nearly the ſame with that of England. A chief governor, 
nerally goes by the name of lord lieutenant is ſent over fro 
land by the king, whom he repreſents, but bis power is 
meaſure reſtrained, and in others enlarged, acccording to th 
ons or the exigency of the times. On his entering ug 

onourable office, his letters patent are publicly read in the 
chamber, and having taken the uſual oaths beſore the lord fi 
lor, the ſword, which is to be carried before him, is delivered 
hands, and he is ſeated in the chair of ſtate, attended by 
chancellor, the members of the privy council, the peers and 
the king at arms, a ſerjeant at mace, and other officers of ſtat 
he never appears publicly without being attended by a body 
guards. He has a council compoſed. of the great officer 
erown; namely, the chancellor, treaſurer, and ſuch of thi 
biſhops, earls, biſhops, barons, judges, and gentlemen, as 
jeſty is pleaſed to appoint. The parliament here, as well as 
and, is the ſupreme court, which is convened by-the Ling 
and generally ſits once every ſecond year. It conſiſts, as ut 
land, of a houſe of lords and commons. Of the former, « 
Engliſh or Britiſh peers or commons. of Great Britain; a 
papiſts, who cannot fit without being properly qualify'd; 
number of commons amount to about 300. Since the acce 
his preſent majeſty, Iriſh parliaments have been rendered on 
The laws are made by the houſe of lords and commons, alle 
they are ſent to England for the royal approbationz when 
proved of by his majeſty and council, they paſs the great 
England, and are returned. , | | 


Nevenuer.] In Ireland the public revenue ariſes from h 
and temporary duties, of which the Eing is the truſtee, for a 
it to particular purpoſes ; but there is beſides this a private 
ariſing from the ancient demeſne lands, from forfeitures for 
and felony, priſage of wines, light-houſe duties, and a ſmall 
the caſual revenue, not granted by parliament ; and in this th 
has the ſame unlimited property that a ſubject has in his 01 
hold. The extent of that revenue is perhaps a ſecret to the} 


Cains.] What the ancient coins of the Iriſh were, is now a 
of mere curioſity and great uncertainty. At preſent the ; 
Treland are the ſame with thoſe of England, (the Iriſh having u. 
but they differ in their denomination, an Engliſh ſhilling þ 
Ireland for thirteen pence, and ſo of the other Engliſh coin. 


Military firength.] Thoſe parts of Ireland that are moſt 1 
vated, contain numbers of inhabitants that. have ver) little l 


= 
„ 
hn. 


* 
* 


CEP LI RH hog 
ne or human laws, and regular forces are abſolutely ne- 
r beping them in order, witneſs the late inſurrections of 
boys, and other banditti, who were inſtigated by their 
Fac theſe and other purpoſes r6;000 Britiſh troops are ge- 
qurtered in Ireland, where they are maiatained and paid 
& Iriſh eſtabliſhment. -_ B 2. 

5) The Iriſh monks have formed a more regular plan of 
Hoy, for their own nation, than is to be met with in other 


& 2nd with ſuch plauſibility, that it has been adopted by 
Tanſiderable learning in that kingdom. They have carried 


Pod, and they have made Ireland flouriſh in arts and feien- 
ally thoſe of government, long before they were known in 
o Greece. Writers however, after the Auguſtan age, bave 
wel the Iriſh, as being no better than ſavages, and the molt, 


ns of the 15th century, a nation of barbarians, though it 
kadmitted, that before this period, ſome of their monks and 
ro had travelled into other parts of Europe, were holy and 
men. 

iſh were converted to chriſtianity, by St Patric, a Scotch- 
no died in 493- After this they were occaſionally invaded 
on kings of England, but in the year 795 and 798 the 
jad Normans, or as they were called, the Eaſterlings, inva- 
& coaſts of Ireland, and were the firſt who erected ſtone edifi- 
tat kingdom. The habitations of the Iriſh, till that time, 
f hurdles covered with ſtraw and ruſhes, and: a very few of 
aber. The natives, however, defended themſelves bravely 
the Eaſterlings, who built Dublin, Waterford, Limerick, 
Is, and Cork, but they reſided chiefly at Dublin, or in its 
urbood, which, by the old Iriſh, was called Fingal, or the 
f Strangers. The natives, about the year 962, ſeem to have 
Þ their aſſiſtance the Anglo-Saxon king Edgar, who had 
nfderable maritime power, and this might have given oc- 
br his clergy to call him king of great part of Ireland. 

ag? the uſe of letters had been by this time introduced into 
jet its hiſtory is ſtill very confuſed. We know, however, 
Iva divided among ſeveral petty princes, and that Henry II. 
hand, provoked at their piracies, and their aſſiſting his ene- 
7 the inRigation of the Pope, had reſolved to ſubdue them. 
petert offered about the year 1168. Dermot Mac-Murrough, 
Leinſter, an oppreſſive tyrant, quarrelled with all his neigh- 
und carried off the wife of a petty prince, O*Roirk, A 
racy being formed againſt him, under Roderic O'Connor, 
tems was the paramount king of Ireland) he was driven 
* country, and took refuge at the court of Henry II. who 
kd to reſtore him upon taking an oath of fealty to the crown 
pad for himſelf, and all the petty kings depending on him, 
very numerous. Henry, who was then in France, recom- 
1 Dermot's caſe to the Engliſh barons, and particularly to 
du, car] of Pembroke, Robert Fitz-Stephen, and Maurice 
"all, Theſe noblemen undertook the expedition upon much 


3 R 2 the 


i 


FI" 
7 yore 
7 

* OILS, 


keeſion of great, wiſe, and learned kings, almoſt to the time 


of the modern hiſtorians, ſpeak of them as being, in the, 


N We 3 


ds 


4 
1 
1 


[ 

N 

1 

N 

} 

| 
A 

£ 


4 4 
Fs 


— — ̃ . — 0 


— — 


K . TT een ̃ͤ ¼.—[ ES 
hf a n * FRY ID * - N a 1 ack. 
2 FIN + - > —_— 1 A — 2 m—_— I ** * * 7 
— 7 — ' =. 2 i ths : 
<4 - 7 1 — 4 » 2 

— - bh 

* 
- 


55 goon of England under William I. and Strongbow was ti 


m FA * * 
V Li Y * 
g we 
: 5 


— 


* 


m n * 1 4 
the ſame principles as the Norman and Breton lords ddt 
dermot's daughter Eva. In 1469, the adventurers ved; 
towns of Wextord and Waterford ; and the next year Strongl 
Fiving with a ſtrong reinforcement, his marriage was-celet 
The deſcendants of the Danes continued ſtill poſſeſſed of 
which, after ſome ineffęctual oppoſition made by king O Cong 
taken and plundered by the Engliſh ſoldiers, but Mar- Tur 
Daniſh 192 eſcaped to his ſhipping, Upon the death of 1 
Henry II. became jealous of earl Stronghow, ſeized upon hi 
in England and Wales, and recalled his ſubje&s from Ireland 


Iriſh, about the ſame time, to the amount of about 66,000 


75 Dublin, under king O'Connor but though all Strong 
Iriſh friends and allies had now left him, and the city was 
to great extremity, he forced the Iriſh to raiſe the ſiege wit 
Joſs, and going over to England he appeaſed Henry by f 
fealty to, him and his heirs, and reſigning into his hands allt 
geities and forts he held. During Strongbow's abſence, Mac 
returning with a great fleet, attempted to retake the city 
lin, but was killed at the ſiege; and in him ended the race of 
erling princes in Ireland. 3 
In 1172, Henry II. attended by 400 knights, 4000 vetera 
ers, and the flower of his Engliſh. nobility, landed near Wate 
55 not only all the petty princes, of Ireland, excepting the | 
Ulſter, but the great king Roderic O'Connor, ſubmitted to 
who pretended that O*Connor's ſubmiſſion included that of 
and that copſequently he was the paramount foyereign of I 
that, as it will, he affected to keep a magnificent caurt, an 
a parliament at Dublin, where he parcelled out the eltates « 
Jand, as William the conquerer had done in England, to his 


liſh nobility. He then ſettled a civil adminiſtration at Dul 


near as poſſible to that of England, to which he returned in 
having firſt ſettled an Engliſh colony from Briſtol in Dubli 
all the liberties and free cultoms, ſay their charters, Which ii 
zens of Briſtol enjoyed. | 
Richard I. was too much taken up with the cruſadey to pay 
regard to the affairs of Ireland, but king John, after his ac 
eblarged his father's plan, of introducing into Ireland 775 
and officers, and he erected that part of the provinces 
and Munſter which was within the Engliſh pale, into twelve 
ties. The unſettled reign of Henry III. his wars, and cap 
gave the Iriſh a very mean opinion of the Engliſh goyerame 
Ting his reign ; but they ſeem to have continued quiet und 
ſon Edward I. Gaveſton, the famous favourite of Edward | 
quired great credit while he acted as. lieutenant of Ireland 
the ſucceſſes of the Scots king Robert Bruce bad almolt | 
fatal to the Engliſh intereſt in Ireland, and ſuggeſted tt 
Irith the idea of transferring their allegiance from the 
of England to Edward Bruce, king Robert's brother: , 
prince accordingly invaded Ireland, where he gave repeater 
to the Engliſh governors and armies, and being ſuppore 1 
brother in perſon, he was actually crowned king at Dua 


: 4 9 
* 


1 


N RY 


| niſed being maſter of Dublin. The younger Bruce ſeems | 


ven violent in the exerciſe of his ſovereignty, and he was 
vated and killed by Bermingham the Engliſh general, Af- 
&£wvard II. ruled Ireland with great moderation, and paſſed 
acellent acts with regard to that country. 
ring the minority of Edward III. the commotions were a- 
— in Ireland, and not ſuppreſſed without great loſs and 
+0 the fide of the Engliſh. In 1333 a rebellion broke out, 
& the Engliſh inhabitants had no inconſiderable ſhare. A 
a of vigorous, brave governors, however, at laſt quieted 
rents; and about the year 1361, prince Lionel, ſon to Ed- 
Il; having married the heireſs of Ulſter, was ſent over to go- 
beland, and, if poſſible, to reduce its inhabitants to an entire 
ty with the laws of England. In this he made a great 
ws, but did not entirely accompliſh it. 
1304, Richard II. finding that the execution of his deſpotie 
$0 England muſt be abortive without farther ſupport, paſſed 
v Ireland with an army of 24,000 men well armed and ap- 
d, As he made no uſe of force, the Iriſh looked upon his 
to be a high compliment to their nation, and admired the 
cence of his court. Richard, on the other hand, courted 


by all the arts he could employ; and beſtowed the honour of 


Wood on their chiefs, In ſhort, he behaved fo as to entirely 
ſer affections. In 1399, Richard being then deſpotic in Eng- 
undertook a freſh expedition into Ireland to revenge the death 
ord lieutenant, the earl of March, who had been killed by the 
nl, Eis army again ſtruck the natives with conſternation, 
ile) threw themſelyes upon his mercy. It was during this ex- 
in that the duke of Lancaſter landed in England, and Richard 
bs return findipg himſelf deſerted, and that he could not de- 
Won the Iriſh, A his crown to his rival. 
m VIII. governed Ireland by ſupporting its chiefs a_ 
ater, but they were tampered with by the emperor Charles V. 
wich Henry made his natural fon, the duke of Richmond, 
N lentenant. This did not prevent the Iriſh from breakin 
Wd rebellion in the year 1540, under Fitz-Gerald, who bad 
n deputy, and who was won over by the emperor, but was 
anged at Tyburn. | 
ut the year 1542, James V. king of Scotland, formed ſome 
wons on the crown of Ireland, a was favoured by a ſtron 
wong the Iriſh themſelves. Henry underſtood that the Iri 
nean opinion of his dignity, as the kings of England had hi- 
d alumed no higher title than that of lords of Treland. He 
took that of king of Ireland, which had a great effect with 
Wre Iriſh, who thought that allegiance was not due to a lord. 
da more perfect ſubmiſſion of the native Triſh to Henry's 
went than ever had been known, and even O' Neil, who pre- 
io de the laſt paramount king of Ireland, ſwore allegiance to 
» Vo created him earl of Tyrone ; and fince this time, no 


? ol any conſequence has been made by the Iriſh, to throw off | 


F wil Yoke, 


ISLE 


* 
7 4 * 
P 5 ck — 
— 2 ————— 


, - 
* * * . ſe _ - 
e ̃ en CD TEC — 2  - 


HIS is not the Mona mentioned by Tacitus. Its len; 
North to South is about thirty miles, its breadth fr 
to fifteen; and the latitude of the middle of the iſland is 5 
degrees, ſixteen minutes, North. It is faid, that on a c. 
the three Britannic kingdoms may be ſeen from this iſland, 
here is wholeſome, and the climate, only making allowance 
ſituation, pretty much the ſame as that in the Northiof E 
from which it does not differ much in other reſpects. The hi 
are barren, and the champain fruitful in wheat, barley, 6: 
flax, hemp, roots, and pulſe. The ridge of mountains whi 
were divides the ifland, both protects and fertilizes the vallie 
there is good paſturage. The better ſort of inhabitants ha 
Gzeable horſes, and a ſmall kind, which is ſwift and hard 
are they troubled with any noxious animals. The coaſts 
with ſea-fowl ;z and the puffins, which breed in rabbit holes, 
moſt a lump of fat, and eſteemed very delicious. Itis faid 
ifland abounds with iron, lead, and copper mines, tho” unn 
as are the quarries of marble, ſlate, and ſtone. 

The Ifle of Man contains ſeventeen pariſhes and four town 
ſea coaſts, Caſtle - town is the metropolis of the iſland, and 
of its government; Peele, which of late years, begins to 
Douglas, which has the beſt market and beſt trade in the if 
well as the richeſt and moſt populous town, on account of it 
lent harbour, and its fine mole, extending into the ſea; Ram 
Iikewiſe a conſiderable commerce, on account of its ſpacious 
which ſhips may ride ſafe from all winds excepting dhe Non 
The reader, by throwing his eyes upon the map, may ſee ho 
veniently this iſland is ſituated for being the ſtorehouſe of im 
which it was till within theſe few years, to the inexpreſlible 
dice of his majeſty's revenue; and this neceſſarily leads me it 
upon the hiſtory of the iſland. ; 

During the time of the Scandinavian rovers on the ſeas 
have before mentioned, this ifland fas their readezvous, . 
chief force was here collected, from whence they annoyed t 
brides, Great Britain and Ireland. The kings of Man 
mentioned in hiſtory; and though we have no regular a 
their ſucceſſion, and know but a few of their names, jet 
doubtedlx were for ſome ages maſters of thoſe ſeas. Aboutt 
1263, Alexander II. king of Scotland, a ſpirited prince, bas 
{eated the Danes, laid claim to the ſuperiority of Man, and ( 
Owen, or John, its king, to acknowledge him as lord pan 
It ſeems to have continued, either tributary or in proper?) 
kings of Scotland, till it was reduced by Edward I. and 


U 
3 
, 


„ 


1511 of Man and Ia . 4 


A from that tire, exerciſed the ſuperiority over the ifland 3 
r find it ſtill poſſeſſed by the poſterity of its Daniſh princes, 
of Edward III. who diſpoſſeſſed the laſt queen of the 
u beſtowed it on his favourite, Montague, earl of Saliſ- 
Yi; family being forfeited, Henry IV. beſtowed Man, and 
ve of the biſhopric, firſt upon the Northumberland fami- 
tht being forfeited, upon Sir John Stanely, whoſe poſteri- 
dar of Derby, enjoyed it, till, by failure of heirs male, it 
4 upon the duke of Athol, who married the ſiſter of the late 
br. Reaſons of ſtate rendered it neceſſary for the crown of 
tan to purchaſe the cuſtoms and the iſland from the Athol 
| nd the bargain was completed, by 70,000 I. being paid to 
ein 1765. The duke, however, retains his territorial pro- 
atheiſand, though the form of its government is altered, 
þ ting has now the fame rights, powers, and prerogatives, as 
s formerly enjoyed. The inhabitants, alſo, retain many of 
acient conſtitutions and cuſtoms. : | 
dabliſhed religion in Man is that of the chureh of England. 


ue has now the nomination of the biſhop, who is called biſhop | 


rand Man; and he enjoys all the ſpiritual rights and pre» 
x of other biſhops, but does not fit in the Britiſh houſe of 
ls ſee never having been erected into an Engliſh barony. 
weſaſtical government is well kept up in this ifland, and the 
re comfortable. The language, which is called the Manks, 
hoken by the common people, is radically Erſe, or Iriſh, but 
Ioixture of other languages. The New Teſtament and Com- 
er Book have been tranſlated into the Manks language. 
wives, who are ſaid to amount to above 20,000, are inoffen- 


kzritable, Jad hoſpitable. The better ſort live in ſtone houſes, - 


poorer in thatehed ; and their ordinary bread is made of oatmeal, 
modus for exportation conſiſt of wool, hides, and tallow ; 


bey exchange with foreign ſhip; ing for commodities they 


t occaſion for from other parts. Before the South promon- 
Man, is a little iſland called the Calf of Man; it is about 
lies in circuit, and ſeparated from Man by a channel about 
Hongs broad. * 

land affords ſome curioſities which may amuſe an antiquary. 
ſilt chiefly of E unic ſepulchral inſeriptions and monuments 


dit braſs daggers, and other weapons of that metal, and 


if pure gold, which are ſometimes dug up, and feem to indi- 
r iplendor of its ancient poſſeſſors. | 


&e Engliſh channel are four iflands ſubject to England; theſe 


— 


ey, Guernſey, Alderney, and Sark; which, though they 


 rearer to the coaſt of Normandy than to that of England, 
un the dioceſe of Wincheſter. They lye in a cluſter in Mount 
at's bay, between Cape la Hogue in Normandy, and Cape 
Ein Britany. The computed diſtance between Jerſey and 
four leagues; between that and Guernſey, feven leagues z 
"en the ſame and Alderney, nine leagues. 


| LY was known to the Romans; and lies fartheſt within the 
degrees, 7 minutes North latitude, and in the ſecond de- 
— 


2 7 TS 
98 


30% TIsL2%4 of Contingr ahd AT 
woe 26 minutes Weſt longitude, 18 miles Weſt of Norman! 
North is inacceſſible through Iofty cliffs, the South is als 
with the water; the higher land in its midland part is wal 
and abounds with orchards, from which is made an incregit 


tity of excellent cyder. The vallies are fruitful, and well 
and contain plenty of cattle and ſheep. The inhabitants x 


lage too much, being intent upon the culture of cyder, the WM 
ment of commerce, and particularly the manufacture of of 


The honey in Jerſey is remarkably fine; and the ifland is 
rey with fiſh and wild-fowl almoſt of every kind, ſome of 
ng peculiar to the iſland, and very delicious. 
The ifland is not above twelve miles in length, but the ai 
Jubrious, that in Camden's time, it was faid that there 
buſineſs for a phyſician. The inhabitants in number are about 
and are divided into twelve pariſhes. The capital town is 
liar, which contains above 400 houſes, and makes a hand 
pearance. The property of this iſland belonged former] 
Carterets, a Norman family, who have been always attach 
royal intereſt, and gave protection to Charles II. both wi 
and prince of Wales, at a time when no part of the Brit 
nions durſt recognize him. The language of the inhabi 
French, with which moſt of them intermingle Engliſh word 
ſtockings and caps form their ſtaple commodity, but they 
a conſiderable trade in fiſh with Newfoundland, and diſpoſe 
cargoes in the Mediterranean. 'The governor is appointed 
crown of England, but the civil adminiſtration reſts with a 
aſſiſted by twelve jurats. As this iſland is the principal re 
the duchy of Normandy depending on the kings of England, 
ſerves the old feudal forms, and particularly the affembly 6 
which is as it were a miniature of the . Britiſh parliament, as 
in the time of Edward I. | 
GUERNSEY is thirteen miles and a half from South- 
North-Eaſt, and twelve and a half where broadeſt, Eaſt and 
but has only ten pariſhes, to which there are but eight m 
four of the parifhes being united, and Alderney and Sark, 
are appendages of Guernſey, having one a- piece. Thought 
much finer iſland than that of Jerſey, yet it is far leſs valuabl 
cauſe it is not ſo well cultivated, nor is it fo populous. It a 
in cyder; and the inhabitants ſpeak French: but want of 
the greateſt inconveniency that both iſlands labour under, 1 
ly harbour here is at St Peter le Port, which is guarded by tw 
one called the Old-Caſtle, the other Caſtle-Cornet. Vi 
likewiſe part of the ancient Norman patrimony. 


ALDERNEY is about eight miles in compaſs, and is by 
the neareſt of all theſe iſlands to Normandy, from which k! 


rated by a narrow ſtrait, called the Race of Alderney, whn 


dangerous paſſage in ſtormy weather, when the two yo 
otherwiſe it is fafe, and has depth of water for the large 

This iſland is healthy, and the foil is remarkable for a fine | 
COWS» js | : 


* SEX Owl a c00,0..0- 0 


TURKEY-iv EUROPE 80; 
(4 2 ſmall iſland depending upon Guernſey ; the inhabi- 
ug. lived, and enjoy beak nature all the conveniencies 
Fol icants of the three laſt mentioned iflands are thought 
10,000» The religion of all the four iflands is that of 
hes though A 


CG —— 


r n K * 1. 


dominions of che Grand Signior, or c the Turkiſh empire, 
gh comprehending ſeveral ancient nations, is uſually cal - 


1 &, and lyes partly in Europe, partly in Aſia, and partly 
Wi N 

riti 

fab TURKEY in EUROPE. 

ord hs | 

7 « and Extent. N Etween the latitudes of thirty · ſix and ſor- 
* ty-ſix degrees North, and about fix hun- 
1 s; and between tha longitudes of ſeventeen and forty de - 


If, about one thouſand miles. 
1 Bounded on the North by — N and Scla- 


& South by the Mediterranean ſea. 
& Eaſt by Circaſſia, the Black ſea, Archipelago, and: their 


tion. 


2 & Weſt by the Mediterranean and the territories of the Ve- 
* ud Auſtrians, 

+ Turkiſh territories in Europe may be conſidered under the 
ven principal diviſions : 


| A North coaſt of the Black-ſea, part of the ancient Sar - 


2 of the river Danube, part of the ancient Dacia. 

enn of the Danube, part of the ancient Myſia. 

A the Boſphorus and Helleſpont, the ancient Thrace. 

Mi of Mount Rhodope, or Argentum. the North part of 


ece. 


* the Adriatic ſea, the ancient Illyricum. 
uh 8 the Morea, the ancient Peloponneſus, or South diviſion 
ents 


3 8 Subdi. 


nſtantinople 
- fAdrianople | 
P 


hilippopoli 


Soil, Air, Seaſons, and Water.) Nature has laviſhed ups 
habitants of Turkey, all her bleſſings in theſe four particula 
ſoil, though unimproved, is luxuriant beyond deſcription. 
is falubrious, and friendly to the imagination, unleſs when 
rupted from the neighbouring countries, or through the: 
or uncleanneſs of the Turkiſh manner of living. ſea 
here regular, and pleaſant, and have been cele trom 
moteſt times of antiquity. The Turks are invited to freq 
things, by the purity and whekeſomeneſs of the water all 01 


inions. 


Mountains.) Mount Athos lyes on a peninfula, running 
Egean ſea; the mounts Pindus and Olympus, celebrated in 
fables, ſeparate Theſſaly from Epirus. Parnaſſus, ſo famous 
ing conſecrated to the Muſes, is well known. Mount Hznus 
wite often mentioned by the Poets; but moſt of the other ms 

have changed their names. Even the moſt celebrated mou® 
bove-mentioned, have had modern names impoſed upon 
the barbarians in their neighbourhood. | 


River.) The Danybe, the Save, the Neiſter, the Ne 
the Don, are the beſt known rivers in this country, thoug 
others have been celebrated by poets and hiſtorians. 

. . J 


-- 


wall; and Production.] Theſe are excellent all over the Eu- 

ſyrkey, eſpecialty when aſſiſted by the ſmalleſt degree of in · 
| Befides pot and garden herbs of almoſt every kind, this 
produces in great abundance and perfection, oranges, le- 
trons, pomegranates, grapes of an uncommon ſweetneſs, ex- 
A almonds, olives, and cotton. Beſides theſe, many drugs, 
non in other parts of Europe, are produced here. 


J The Theſſalian, or Turkiſh horſes, are excellent both 
ir beauty and ſervice. The black cattle are large, eſpecially 
we. The goats are a'moſt valuable part of the animal crea- 
phe inhabitants, for the nutrition they afford, both of milk 
. The large eagles which abound in the neighbourhood of 
the, furniſh the beſt feathers for arrows for the Turkiſh and 
uchers, and they ſel at an uncommon price. Partridges 
n plentiſul in Greece, as are all other kinds of fowls and qua - 
& all over Turkey in Europe, but the Turks and Mahome- 
general, are not very fond of animal food. 


alien and Curig/ities, natural and artificial.] Almoſt every 
ground, every river, and every fountain in Greece, preſents 
eller with the ruins of a celebrated antiquity. On the Iſt» 
Corinth, the ruin of Neptune's temple, and the theatre, 
the Ithmean games were celebrated, are ſtill viſible. Athens, 
| tontains at preſent above 10,000 inhabitants, is a ſruitful 
x of the moſt magnificent and celebrated antiquities in the 
ud to particularize them would-be endleſs. The temple of 
m, is thought by ſome to be the fineſt extant. The temple of 
wit winds, and the lantern of Demoſthenes, are ſtill entire. 
Amins of the temple of the oracle of Apollo, are ſtill viſible 
n, on the ſouth fide of mount Parnaſſus, and the marble ſteps 
bend to a pleaſant running water, ſuppoſed to be the renown- 
Wan ſpring, with the niches for ſtatues in the rock, are ſtill 
le, The famous cave of Trophonius is ſtill a natural curi- 
LLiadia, the old Bœotia. 


] Conſtantinople, the capital of this empire, is ſitu- 
athe European ſide of the Boſphorus. It was built upon the 
if the ancient Byzantium, by the Roman emperor Conſtan- 
& Great, as a more inviting ſituation than Rome, tor the feat 
Fre. It became — the capital of the Greek empire, 
Wing eſcaped the deſtructive rage of the barbarous nations, it 
i greateſt as well as the moſt beautiſul city in Europe, and 
None during the Gothic ages, in which there remained any 
Mt the ancient elegance in manners and arts. While it re- 
in the poſleſſion of the Greek emperors, it was the only 
l Europe, for the commodities of the Eaft-Indies. It de» 

great advantages from its being the rendezvous of the 
" and being then in the meridian of its glory, the Euro- 
Mers, in the ages of the cruſades, ſpeak of it with aſtoniſh- 
O what a vaſt city is Conſtantinople, (exclaims one when 
*held it) and how beauciful ! how many monaſteries are 
a, a2d how many palaces built with wonderful art; how 
382 ö many 


5 
1 


TURKEY th EVROPE ily 


| 
N 
; 


505 TURKEY „ EUROPE, 
many manufactures are there in the city amazing tobehol! 
be aſtoniſhing to relate how it abounds with all good thi 
gold, ſilver, and ſtuffs of various kinds; for every hour ſi 
in the port with all things neceſſary for the uſe of man.” 
tinople is even at this day one of the fingſt cities in the wor 
tuation and its port. It is frequently called dhe Part, by 
minence. The proſpect from it is noble. It abounds wit) 
ties. The moſque of St Sophia, once a Chriſtian church, i 
in ſome reſpects to exceed in grandeur and architecture qt 
Rome. The city itſelf is-built in a triangular form, with 
glio ſtanding on a point of one of the angles, from wher 
a proſpect of the delightful eoaſt of the Leſſer Aſia, which 
be equalled. Both the magnitude and population of Conſt 
Have been greatly exaggerated by crudulous travellers” Th 
thors think that it does not contain above $800,000 int 
three-fourths of whom are ſaid to be Greeks and Armen 
the reſt are Jews and Turks. Others ſuppoſe the inh;bitan 
exceed 600,000. ö | | 


As to the ere, religion, government, &c. theſe ſhall 


tioned under Turkey and fla. 


ISLANDS belonging to TURKEY in EU} 
| being part of Ancient Gxzrce, 


NEGROPONT, the ancient Eubœa, ſtretches from th 

| < * Eaſt to the North-Weſt, and on the Eaſtern coalt of 

Livadia- It is go miles long, and 25 broad. Here the 
llies ye. The tides on its coaſts are irregular; and the 
If abounds in corn, wine, and fruit. | 


_ LEMNOS, lyes on the North part of the Egean fea or nin 
lago, and is almoſt a ſquare of 25 miles in len and breadt te 
it produces corn and wine, yet its principal riches ariſe iron 
neral earth, ſometimes - called terra Lemma or Sigillata, bec 
ſealed up by the Turks, who receive therefrom a con 
venue, 


TENEDOS, is remarkable only for its lying oppoſite to 0 
and its being mentioned by Virgil as the place to which the 
retired and left the Trojans in a fatal ſecurity. | 


SCYROS, is about 60 miles in circumference, and is ret 
chiefly for the remains of antiquity which it contains. 


LESBOS, or MYTELINE, is about 60 miles longs # 
mous for the number of philoſophers and poets it probes 
inhabitants were ſormerly noted for their prodigality- 


SCIO, or CH1OS, lyes about 80 miles Welt of SN“, 


* 


TURKEY in EUROPE. zog 
: . | 

wniles in circumference. This iſland, though rocky and 
aus, produces excellent wine, but no corn. It is inhabi- 
$100,000 Greeks, 10,000 Turks, and above 3000 Latins, 
he poets and hiſtorians ſaid to be born-here, the inhabi- 
um Homer, and ſhew a little ſquare houſe, which they call 
chool. The Greeks pay a capitation tax for the exerciſe 
zrligion and laws ; the rate of the higheſt rank is ten crowns 
the ſecond three, and the meaneſt two and a half, yearly. 


95, lyes oppoſite to Epheſus, on the coaſt of the Leſſer Aſia, 
ten miles from the continent, It is 30 miles long, and 15 
| This iſland gave birth to Pythagoras, and is inhabited by 
Qtritians, who are well treated by the Turks, their maſters. 
lad is ſuppoſed to have been the native country of Juno; and 
ers think that the ruins ot her temple, and of the ancient 
x, are the fineſt remains of antiquity in the Levant. ' 


be South of Samos lyes PATMOS, about 20 miles in circum- 
| bur ſo barren and dreary, that it may be called a rock ra- 
kn an iſland, It has, however, a convenient [haven ; and 
„Creek monks who are upon the iſland, ſhew a cave where 
is ſuppoſed to have written the Apocalypſe. 2 * 


(YCLADES iſlands lye like a circle round Delos, the chief 

a which lies South of the iflands Maycone and Tirſe, and 
tidway between the continents of Aſia and Europe. Tho” 
s not above fix miles in circumference, it is one of the moſt 
ad of all the Grecian iſlands, as being the birth-place of A- 
ud Diana, the magnificent ruins of whoſe temples are ſtill vi- 
This iſland is almoſt deſtitute of inhabitants. | 


08, lyes between the iſlands of Luxia and Melos. Like all 
er Greek iſlands, it contains the moſt ſtriking and magnifi- 
uns of antiquity ; but is chiefly renowned for the beauty and 
ß of its marble. 


GO, or CYTHEREA, lyes South - Eaſt of the Morea, and 
at 50 miles in circumference, but rocky and mountainous, and 
mar kable ſor being the favourite reſidence of Venus. 


WIORIN, is one of the moſt Southermoſt iſlands in the Ar- 
ago, and was formerly called Caliſta, and afterward Thera. 
d ſeemingly covered with pumice- ſtones, yet, through the in- 
'0 the inhabitants, who are about 10,000, it produces barley 
de, with ſome wheat. One third of the people are of the La- 
ned, and ſubject to a popiſh biſhop. Near this iſland another 
"the ſame name, from the bottom of the ſea, in 19079. At 
te of its birth, there was an earthquake, attended with moſt 
u lightnings and thunders and boilings of the ſea for ſeveral 
bthat when it aroſe out of the ſea it was a mere volcano, but 
ming ſoon ceaſed. It is about 200 feet above the ſea, and at 
9 its firſi emerging it was about a mile broad and five miles 
in 


r 


— xce, but it has ſince increafed. ' Several 


in their neighbourhood is fo deep as not to be fathomed, 
Tue famous iſland of RHODES is ſituated abort 
| Welt of the continent of Lefſer-Afia, being about 30 mi 


held in one hand a lighthouſe for the direction of marine 


| iſland were formerly maſters of the '{eaz and the Rhodian 


kinds. The fiege of Candia, the capital of the iſland, in 


ſiege coſt the Turks 180,000 men, and the Venetians $0,000. 


at the bottom of the celebra'ed Mount Olympus, is the molt 


tired to Malta. 


cient capital, has a good harbour; and the natural produce i 


/ 


„ _ TURKEY 'w EUROPE 


a S1 


of the Archipelago appear to have had the like original, | | 


and 25 broad. This iſland 'abounds in wine, and many of 
ceſſariet of life; but the inhabitants import their corn from ti 
bouring country. The coloſſus of braſs, which anciently 
the mouth of its harbour, and was 50 fathems wide; was 
accounted one of the wonders of the world ; one foot being 
on each ſide of the harbour, ſhips paſſed between its legs ; 


—_ = © we 


face of the coloſſus repreſented the ſun, to whom this image 
dicated ; and its height was about 135 feet. The inhabitants 


the directory of the Komans in maritime affairs. The kni 
St John of Jeruſalem, after loſing Paleſtine; took this ilar 
the Turks in 1308, but loſt it to them in 1522, and aſterw 


CANDIA, the ancient Crete, is ſtill renowned for its | 
cities, for its being the birth - place of Jupiter, the ſeat of ley 
to all Greece, and many other hiſtorical: and political diſt 
It lyes between 35 and 36 degrees of North latitude, being 2c 
long and ſixty broad, almoſt equally diſtant from Europe, Af 
Africa, The famous mount Ida ſtands in the middle of the 
and is no better than a barren rock; and Lethe, the river 
vion, is a torpid ſtream: Some of the vallies of this iſland pt 
wine, fruits, and corn ; all of them remarkably excellent i 


times, was far more wonderful and bloody than that of Troy 
Turks inveſted it in the beginning of the year 164% and its 
tian garriſon, after bravely defending itſelf till the latter 
September 1669, made, at laſt, an honourable capitulation. 


- CYPRUS, lyes in the Levant ſea, about 30 miles diſtat 
the coaſts of Syria and Paleſtine. It is 130 miles long, and 70 
and lyes at almoſt an equal diſtance from Europe and Aft 
was formerly famous for the worſhip of Venus, the Cyprian ge 
and during the time of the Cruſades, was a rich flouriſhing 
dom, inhabited by Chriſtians. Irs wine, eſpecially that which 


table and richeſt of all that grows in the Greek iſlands. Nic 
the capital, and the ſee of a k archbiſhop. Famagvlta, | 


iſland is ſo rich, that many European nations find their ac! 
keeping conſuls reſiding upon it; but the oppreſſions of the 
have depopulated and impoveriſhed it to a ſarpriſing degree, © 
the revenue they get from it does not exceed 1250 J. K- Jer. 

ard I. king of England, ſubdued Cyprus, on account of * 


TURKEY in EUROPE | _ gi 
+; nd its royal title was transferred to Guy Euſignan, 
„ who (till 

&;t expty honur. 4 Aa 


in the. ſea SAPIENZA,. STIVALI, 
os HAT 14. SANTA MAURA, CORFU, and 
of ſmaller note, particularly ISOLA DEL COMPARE, 
| oald not deſerve mention, had it not been the ancient Itha- 
j birth-place and kingdom of Ulxſſus. 
4 in gener are fruitfül. Zante, belonging to to the 
ns, has a populous capital of the fame name, and is a place 
kerable trade, . 7 fruits. — — 83 
Achat iſland, is a place o ſtrength, and belon 
Venetians, who concern Foe * very little a wel · 
qeererunent of thoſe and other iſla ſo that the inhabi- 


ih generally Greeks, bear a very indifferent character. 


— — , w ů 


= K « 1 
: , | f + 
6. | * * N . N 0 - »4 \ 
* 4 4 is N „ 


7. 


p HE continent of Aſia is fituated b nn 
| s of Eaſt longitude, and between Ros 
1 degrees of North latitude. It is about / 

from the Dardanels on the Weſt, to the Ealtern han 


and about 4380 miles in breadth, from the mono 


Malacca, to the moſt Northern cape of Nova Zemblin__ 
ed by the Frozen Ocean on the North; on the Wenn 

from Africa by the Red Sea, and from EuAFF7 f 
Mediterranean, the Archipelago, the Helleſpont nn 
mora, the Boſphorus, the Black Sea, the river "Dos 
drawn from it to the river Tobol, and from then wan 
which falls into the Frozen ocean. On the Ealt ws: 
the Pacific ocean, or South-Sea, which ſeparates wane 
and on the South, by the Indian Ocean fo thaF ny 
rounded by the ſea, The principal regions which Gnas 
ry are as follow: 1 | 


Kingdoms and ſtates. | Poſition. 
Turxey in Asia, inclu- 
ding the Leſſer Aſia, 9 
and ſome other pro-] g w 
vinces. . 


A414 8. W. 


. a 


PrRSsIA, including part of 
Circaſlia, Mingrelia, and] 8 8 W. 


Ix bia, Weſt the —_— South 
| 


- 


EF NG 4 


— 
2 * & 
» 
* * 
* 
225 
Fa He 
* 
= 
4 = ks — OC 
1 8 


73 


- | "= | 

Fell t 1 ©. 3 
| : 
-4 i : 2 T4 < ly! s ; 
* „ 2 3 a ” 4 | | — of | = | 
23 : 1 | . | 2 
. N R Ve — <L RN : ; | 

N. 4 < ; | Wi nd od nd. 8 
- + 1 xz WA, | 0 4 
| * | 
— — — — — 1 1 . 


2 b * * 4 
a 8 | * —— - G 
6 3 2 CIO 3 
» "> 4 — 3 * R : 3 > - 
* * 
| — 
— % 
* 
- 
= 
. q . 
. — 
- 1 - * \ 
- * 14 1 — 1 
1 * , —— — 8 p 4 
Ds” r 
I 2 . 9 nc bo. * Lo : "x. » $5 
| % a $5.4 © 
* 
* * 
. — 4 l — 4 
4 * K \ * * Ms * * +46 . "4 
G \ * * 3 | 
11 e ; *. | - 
= = TI - * * : q 
3 = —_— 2. * 0 m_ : * * , - 2 + ö 
| Th Tr” * * > 
» : l 5 F ©. l > 7 
7 * * = : 
: 6 P * th f = : 
>, WG x3 K PF | — * — . J G 1 
a " e N 
tt : | 
* 


* 


E : 
A a 
227 


% 
| - o ; 
4+ * * * > 3 * ad 8 7 * 8 
= | 1 BY N b 
N NE © — * 8 CS. N = 
. * —— * 1 , 
& 3 1 $: — 2 
1 * 
4 
* 
. - 3 
4 * ; 
- * ä " 
W - * * * 1 . 
+ Y * 1 I a 4 


s * 
gent'® 


— AS 


=- 


lun Fife London! 


7 


—B et. At — - 


e 


— Ju. 


' G 7 4 % 
4 t . t xt +4" + «Ag, af 4 1 aa tut —_ lis Dont ; * an * „ 0 83 * * 
F \ * wy. l - mo —-. 
l 1 * R * m 
if = \ 4 — 1 | 0 - " 4 ' 5 
Cs * c l * 
» ee 23 2 
* of © — — 
ö 4. | | oe. 
W b "> * þ 
oy 


* 


—_— D2- 


3 5 —— „ 


7 


—— 


rss | 5 
04 
4 N * K R TA 


FHDW 


oy 


* M TT MX 


Hor w Ent /rom London 


— — * 
3 . — 4 
e P * — 
W 
* , 8 
„%% oo oo * ». © d of - +» — —— _ 5 9 
* - - * * - F J = 
' „1 » $4 = { 
* _ 1 —— — 9 * - =y 
. * - 


* 


LS ls 


: Pe kin. 8 * 


"ay 8 E. Nankin V. 
+ AE Canton III. 

Lat Pagans ._ |Chyman' VII. 
nd Moo) An. Pagan [Thiber E 
bonding NE. ans 8 
ae and and ra | L. 
und Aſtracan North. | Pagans 
Ll, 
gtary NW. The natives live 
10 North. Pagans in tents or huts, 
and Brad- | d ramble from 

h | — to place. 


r UR K 
| 


Lift. 


Aae ilands, which conſiſt of part of the Turkiſh 
be Archipelago 


and Levant ; and the Oriental iſlands in 


E Y 


3 T 


ocean, of which thoſe of Japan, Formoſa, Anyan, the 
Celebes, or Macaſſar, Gilolo, Ceram, Moluccos, Ban- 
þ Java, Sumatra, Ceylon, Bally, Flores, Timor; the 
Hadoman, and Maldiva iflandsy, are the moſt remarkable 


IN ASIA, 


x Etween the latitudes of 28 and 45 degrees 
North, and between the longitudes 27 and 


Finelude the Levant and the Black ſea, which toge- 
Athird part of the whole extent. 


Boundaries: ] 


414 e R K E 1 is A 891 4. 
Boundaries. Bounded on the North by the Black fea and 
fa; on the South by Arabia on the Levant fe; on the 
Perſia z on the Weſt by the Archipelago Helleſpont; v 
parate it from Europe. | 


: 


Diviſions. | Subdiviſions. - | Chief to 


1 Eyraco Arabic or Chal- 
dea, or Babylonia Baſſora and 


2 Diarbec or Mefopota- 
mia a 


The Eaftern provin-| ria { 
ces are 4 Turcomania or Arme 


= 


Ra rn DSS! 
5 2 including 
Mingrelia and Imaret- 
q ta, and part of Circaſ- 
| fia 


: Natolia Proper, olim] Burſa, Nici, 

| Aſia minor | | and Epheſi 

| 2 Armaſja, formerly] Amalia, Tr: 

Natoſĩa, or the Leſſer Pontus and Cappadocia and Sinope 
Aſia, on the Welt z Aladulia or Armenia 
minor ; 

4 Caramania, olim Ly- 

cia, Cilicia, &c. p Satalia and 


Ajazzo and 


. Aleppo, Anti 

Eaſt of the Levant Syria, with Paleſtine, or| maſcus, Ty 
—__— the Holy Land | Tripoli, cal 
and Jeruſal 


* 


Mountaint.] The moſt remarkable are, Olympus y Tat 
and Anti-taurus ; Caucaſus and Arrarat; Lebanon; and 


Rivers.} The moſt remarkable rivers, are the Euphrates 
Orantes ; Meander ; Sarabat; Kara; and Jordan. 


Air and Climate.) Though both are delightful ia the ut 
2 and naturally ſalubrious to the human conſtitution, 
ey, both in Europe and Aſia, is often viſited by the plague; 
ful ſcourge of mankind, wherever it takes place, but he 
deſtructive, from the native indolence of the Turks, and 
perſtitious belief in predeſtination, which prevents them fr 
precaution to defend themſelves againſt this calamity. 


Soil and Produce.] This country produces all the luxu 
in the utmoſt abundance, notwithſtanding the indolence of 
ers. Raw ſilk, corn, wine, oil, hotiey, fruit of every ip:S 
fee, myrrh, frankincenſe, and odoriferous plants and 
natives here almoſt without culture, which is pradiiſed ( 


— 7 6/4» „ 2 444 4. 2 dais tin — _— A 


| * 


3 


if 3 1 1 4 N | n . 9 
WO TURKEY ix EUROPE axy ASIA 15 
ind Armenian Chriſtians. The olives, citrons, lemons, o- 
1 bg, and dates, produced in thoſe provinces, are highly de- 
aud in ſuch plenty, that they coſt the inhabitants a mere 
nd it is ſaid, in ſome places nothing, Their aſparagus is of- 


ge as a man's leg, and their grapes far exceed thoſe of o- 
quarries in largeneſs. | * 5 


d 


le 


d es prod uTions by Sea and Land] The breed of the Turkiſh 
Oban borſes, the latter eſpecially, are valuable beyond any 

nd, and have conſiderably improved that of the Engliſh. 
* e here in much requeſt, from their ſtrength, their agility, 


ore all, their moderation in eating and drinking, which is 
dan that of any other known animal. Their numerous herds 
ts furniſh the materials for their camblets. Their kids and 
xe exquiſite eating, and are ſaid to ſurpaſs, in flavour and 
hoſe of Europe; but their other butcher's meet, beef parti- 
is not ſo fine. | / | = 
birds, they have wild fowl in vaſt perfection; their oſtriches 
non by their tallneſs, ſtupidity, and heavineſs. 


= „„ Minerals. ] This country contains all the metals that 
pe und in the richeſt kingdoms and provinees of Europe; 
, þ medicinal ſprings and baths exceed thoſe of any in the known 
) 

d | | 

* TURKS IN EUROPE any ASIA. 

| | ou 

y 


* tants, Manners, : HE number of inhabitants in this 
“ Diverſions. great country is by no means e- 
ther to its extent or fertility ; nor have the beſt geographers 
rf Wl: to aſcertain it, becauſe of the uncertainty of its limits. It 
Ay is not ſo great as it was before the Chriſtian æra, or even 
the Roman emperors z owing to the tyranny under which the 
bre, and their polygamy, which is undoubtedly-an enemy 
Nation. The plague is another cauſe of depopulation. The 


Wl emperor, however, has more ſubjects than any two Euro- 
rinces. 


* 0 the inhabitants, they are generally well made and robuſt 
een young their complexions are fair, and their faces hand- 
* (har hair. and eyes are black, or dark brown. The women, 
nd Jung, are commonly handſome, but they generally look old 
* In their demeanor the Turks are rather hypochondriac, 


kdate, and paſſive; but when agitated by paſſion, furious, 
þ ungovernable; big with diffimulation, jealous, ſuſpicious, 
Wilive beyond conception : in matters of religion, tenacious, 
of "Mons, and moroſe. The morals of the Afiatic Turks are far 
Wi: to thoſe of the European. They are hoſpitable to ſtran- 

ud the vices of avarice and inhumanity reign chiefly among 
77 Feat men. They are likewiſe ſaid to be charitable to one ano- 
nd punctual in their dealings. Their charity and public ſpi- 

u conſpicuous in their building caravauſcras or places of 
3 1 2 enter - 


- 
| 
a - 
* 8 
Y : 
- . 


— — rr r 


Ws, 
=—_ = 


5316 © TURKEY xx EUROPE any ASIA. | 
entertainment on roads that are deſtitute of accommodati 
the refreſhment of poor pilgrims er trayellers. . The 
croſs-legged upon mats, not only at their meals but in ce 
Their ideas, except what they acquire from opium, are fit 
confined, ſeldom reaching without the walls of their own 
where they fit converſing with their women, drinking coffee, 
ing tobacco, and chewing opium. They have little curiofi 
informed of the (tate of their own, or any other country, 

have ſew printed books, and ſeldom read any other than th 
ran, and the comments upon it. Nothing is negociated in 
without preſents ; and here juſtice may be bought and ſold. 
The Turks dine about eleven o'clock in the forenoon, 
ſiup at five in the Winter and fix in the Summer, and this 
principal meal. Among the great people, their diſhes are f 
one by one ; but they have'neither knife nor fork, and they 
permitted by their religion to uſe gold or filver ſpoons. T 
tuals are always high ſeaſoned. Rice is the common food of 
er ſort, ſometimes it is boiled up with gravy ; but their chie 
Pila, which is mutton and fowl boiled to rags, and the ri 
boiled quite dry, the ' ſoup is high ſeaſoned, and poured 
They drink water, ſherbet, and coffee; and the only deba 
know is in opium, which gives them ſenfations reſembling 
intoxication. Gueſts of high rank ſometimes have their bez 
fumed by a female ſlave of the family. They are temperate 
ber from a principle of their religion, which forbids them t 
wine; though in private many of them indulge themſelves it 
of ſtrong liquors, Their common ſalutation is by an inclin 
the head, and laying their right hands on their breaſt. 'Th 
in linen waiſtcoats and drawers, n matreſſes, and cove 
ſelves with a quilt, Few or none of the conſiderable inhab 
this vaſt empire have any notion of walking or riding ef 
health or diverſion, | 
Their active diverſions conſiſt in ſhooting at a mark, or 
with darts, at which they are very expert. Within doors, 
or draught-board are their uſual amuſements ; and if they 
chance games, they never bet money, that being prohibited 
Alcoran. | 


Drefs.] The men ſhave their heads, leaving a lock on the 
and wear their beards long. They cover their heads with a 
and never put it off but when they fleep. Their, ſhirts are 
collar or wriſtband, and over them they throw a long ve 
they tie with a ſaſh, and over the veſt they wear a looſe go 
what ſhorter. Their breeches, or drawers, are of a piece 
ſtockings ; and inſtead of ſhoes they wear ſlippers, which 1 
off when they enter a temple or houſe. They ſuffer no Ui 
or other people, to wear white turbans. The dreſs 
men differs but little from that of the men, only they u 
fened caps upon their heads with horns ſomething like a mil 
wear their hair down, When they appear abroad, they are 
fled up as not to be known by their. neareſt relations. Sucl 
- Women as are virtuous make no uſe of paint to heighten th 


— — wt cat * , —__ HOTTER 
— ” , 
9 — a | a ——em———— —— 
- w f : a 


* 


TURKEY «x EUROPE an» ASIA. © 279 


+ with henna, Which gives them à deep yellow,  'The men 
& of the ſame expedient to colour their beards, _ 3 
ages in this country are chiefly negociated by the ladies. 
Jie terms are agreed upon, the bridegroom pays down a ſum 
y a licence is taken out from the cadi, or proper magiſtrate, 
parties are married. The bargain is celebrated, as in other 


knilling the houle of the young couple, A man may 

u women as he can maintain, but under the rellrictioꝑ of a 
yl power, to prevent too great a plurality of wives, Be 

wes, the wealthy Turks keep a kind of ſeraglio of women; 
eſe indulgences are ſometimes iniufficient to gratity their un- 
Wdelires.. - | ; 


ey | n * 
T The eſtabliſhed religion is the Mahometan, fo called 
of Womet the author of it; ſome account of which che reader 


A in the following hiſtory of Arabia, the native country of 
woltor, 1 he Turks profeſs that of the ſet of Omar z but 
x: ſplit into as many ſectaries as their neighbours the Chriſli- 
There is no ordination among their clergy, any pzrioa may 
el that pleaſes to take the habit and periorm the fundions of 
kr, and may lay down his office when he pleaſes. Their 
ret or mufti ſeems to have great power in the Nate. 

Turkiſh government having formed the eccleſiaſtical inſtitu - 
the Chriſtians into part of its finances, they axe tolerated 
they are moſt profitable, but the, hardſhips impoſed upon the 
church are ſuch, as muſt always diſpoſe that people to favour 
lation of government. Jeruſalem, Alexandria, and Anti- 


for their privilege, with a civil as well as an eccleſiaſſical 
q over their votaries. The ſame may be ſaid of the Neſtoxĩ- 


or Arminian patriarchs ; and every great city that can pay for 
's, Oc has its archbiſhop or biſhop. 

they 4 

bite ge. The radical languages of this empire are the Sclavoni- 


ic ſeems to have been the mother tongue of, the ancient 
the Greek modernized, but fill bearing a relation to the 
glage; the Arabic, and the Syriac, a dialect of which is ſtill 
A ſpecimen of the modern Greek follows in theic Pater 


F lencar, opios iſo ees tas ourancus 7 hagia bite to onoma ſou : 
r baſilia ſou : to thelema ſou na genetez itzon en te ge, os is ten 
: to pfomi hemas deze hemas ſemoren : ke fi charaſe henes ta 
lena itzane, ke hemas fichoraſomen ekinous oben u adi- 
wn lernes hemais is to piraſmo, alla ſeſon hemas aps ta cara. 


lier and Curioſities, Natural and Artificial ] Thoſe countries 

all that was rich and magnificent in archite&ure, and 
® and neither the barbarity of the Turks, nor the depreda- 
y lave ſuflered from the Europeans, ſeem to have ä 
e 


v diſgui - their complexion, but they often tinge their hands 


* with mirth and jollity, and the money is generally eaplay» © 


patriarchets ; and their heads are indulged according as 


' than thoſe which remain in ruins. "Amidſt ſuch à plenitude 


* 


now known only by the magnificence of its ruins. Their wi 


2 
ple to w 


moſt ſtriking objects that are to be found in the world. Thi 


518 TURNXEY rx EUROPE axy ASIA. | 
ed their number. They are thdre or lefs perfect, acchraial 
air, foil, or climate, in which they ſtand, and all of them | 


ble marks of neglect. Many of the fineſt temples are cc 
into Turkiſh moſques, or Greek churches, and are more di 


ofities, all that can be done here is to ſelec ſome of the mot! 
Tbe remains of Balbec is ſituated on a riſing plain, betws 
poli in Syria, and Damaſcus, diſplay, according to the beſt 
the boldeſt plan that ever was attempted in architecure. 

tico of the temple of Heliopolis is inexpreſſibly ſuperb, tho 
figured by two Tarkith towers. The | hexagonal court behit 


adorned with Corinthian. pilaſters and ſtatues, and it or 
N court of the ſame taſte and grandeur. The gre 
ich this leads, is now ſo ruined, that it is known 
an enteblature, fupported by nine lofty columns, each confi 
three pieces joined together, by iron pins without cement. 
thoſe pins are a foot long, and a foot in diameter, and th 
Turks are daily at work to deftroy the columns, for the fal 
ion. A ſmall temple is ſtill ſtanding, with a pedeſtal of e 
lumns in front, and fifteen in flank, and every where rich 
mented with figures in alto-relief, expreſſing the heads of gd 
roes, and emperors, and part of the ancient mythology. 
Weſt of this temple is another, of a circular form, of the Co 
and Ionic order, but disfigured with Turkiſh moſques and hi 
Balbec is at preſent a little city, encompaſſed with a wal 
inhabitants, who are about 5000 in number, hve in or near 
cular temple, in houſes built out of the ancient ruins. Af 
quarry, in the neighbourhood, furniſhed the ſtones for the 
the temple, and one of the ſtones, not quite detached from 
tom of the quarry, is 70 feet long, 14 broad, and 14 feet f 
deep, and reduced to our * 2 is 1135 tons. A co: 
marble quarry, at a greater diſtance, furniſhed the ornament 
Palmyra, or as it was called by the ancients, Tadmor in 
fart, is fituatcd in the wilds bf Arabia Petrza, about 33 
North latitude, and 200 miles to the South-Eaſt of Aleppo 
approached through a narrow plain lined as it were with the 
of antiquity, and opening all at once, the eye is preſented 


of the ſun lyes in ruins, but the acceſs to it is through 2 vi 
ber of beautiful Corinthian columns of white marble, Supe 
es, amazing columns, a colonade extending 4000 feet 1n 
terminated by a noble mauſoleum, temples, fine porticos, p. 
intercolumniations, and entablatures, all of them in the hig 
and finiſhed with the moſt beautiful materials, appear on 2 
but ſo diſperſed and disjointed, that it is impofithle from 
form an idea of the whole when perfect. Thoſe ſtriking 
contraſted by the miſerable huts of the wild Arabs, who 
or near them. | 

Nothing but occular proof could convince any man, that 
4 city, formerly 10 miles in circumference, could exiſt in t 
of tracts of barren uninhabitable ſands. Nothing however 


* 


TURKEY xx EUROPE ano ASIA.” wg 


than that Fur was formerly the capital of f great kings 
hat it was the pride as well as the emporium of the Eaſtern 
ud that its merchants dealt with the Romans, and the Weſt- 


my 

ed ns, for the merchandizes and luxuries of India and Arabia, 
di 6nt altered ſituation, therefore, can be accounted for only 
de wal cauſes, which have turned the moſt fertile tracts into bar - 
ot WL: The Aflatics think that Palmyra, as well as Balbec, 
tw þ original to Solomon, and in this they receive ſome counte- 


rom ſacred hiſtory. In profane hiſtory it is not mentioned 
be time of Marc Anthony, and its moſt ſuperb buildings are 
to be of the lower empire, abour the time of Gallienus. 
kathus, the laſt king of Palmyra, was highly careſſed by that. 
x, and even declared Auguſtus. His widow Zenobia reign- 
neat glory for ſome time, and Longinus, the celebrated cri- 
i her ſecretary. Not being able to brook the Roman tyran- 
declared war againſt the emperor Aurelian, who took her 
u led her in triumph to Rome, and butchered her principal 
„ and among others the excellent Longinus. He afterwards 
{ her city, and maſſacred its inhabitants, but expended 

wt of Zenobia's treaſures in repairing the temple of the ſun, 
lie ruins of which have been mentioned. None of the Pal- 
nſcriptions reach above the Chriſtian zra, though there can 
doubt that the city itſelf is of much higher antiquity, The 
r juſtinian made ſome efforts to reſtore it to-its ancient ſplen · 
kt without effect, for it dwindled by degrees to its preſent. 
bed (tate, It has been obſerved very juſtly, that its architec- 


wall te proportions of its columns, are by no means equal in 
car Wa © thoſe of Balbec. | 

Ii and Medina are curiofities only through the ſuperſtition of 
the ilWionetans. Their buildings are mean, when compared to 
om ur houſes or churches ; and even the temple of Mecca, in 
t architecture, makes but a ſorry appearance, though erected 

: jt where the great prophet is ſaid to have been born. The 


kay |: faid of the Moſque at Medina, where that impoſtor 


ried, 


33 WE eighbourhood of Smyrna (now called Iſmir) contains many 
* antiquities, as well as Aleppo, and a number of other places 
„ ted in antiquity, and now known only by geographical ob- 


aus. The ſeat of old Troy cannot be diſtinguiſhed by the 
Veſtige, and is known only by its lying oppoſite to the iſle 
@d0s, and the name ef à brook, which the poets magnified 
wonderful river. 


ce, chief Cities, Moſques, and other Buildings. ] Scanderoon 
pon the fite of Alexandretta, but it is now almoſt depopu- 
vuperd remains of antiquity are found in its neighbourhood. 


om i however preſerves a reſpectable rank among the cities of 
e Turkey. It is Qlill the capital of Syria, and is ſuperior 
dings and conveniencies to moſt of the Turkiſh cities. Its 
= uſual in the Eaſt, conſiſt of a large court, with a dead 
int the ſtreet, an arcade or piazza running round it, paved with 


and an elegant ſountain of the ſame in the middle. Alep- 
Po. 


ga TURKEY ix EUROPE axv ASTA. 
bong its ſaburbs, are ſeven miles in compaſs, and contain 
bitants, of whom 430,000 are Chriſtians, and 5000 
It is furnithed with moſt of the conveniencies of life, excepti 
water, within the walls, and even that is ſupplied by an ag 
ſaid'to have been erected by the empreſs Helena. Foreign me 
are numerous here, and tranſat their buſineſs in caravan 
ſquare buildings, containing their ware. houſes, lodging 
compting-houſes. Their coffee is excellent, and confidi 
the Turks as a high luxury, and their ſweetmeats and fruits 
hcions. European merchants live here in greater ſplendor a 
ty than in any other city of the Turkiſh empire, which is 6 
icular capitulations with the Porte. The Engliſh, Fren 
| b, have confuls, who are much reſpected, and appear 
the Engliſh eſpecially, with marks of diſtinction. | 
The heat of the country makes it convenient for the inh; 
to ſleep in the open air, here and over all Arabia, and man 
parts of the Eaſt ; for which reaſon their houſes are flat on t 
This practice accounts for the early acquaintance thoſe natic 
with aftronomy, and the motions of the heavenly bodies, 
plains ſome parts of the holy ſcripture. As the Turks are y 
form in their way of living, this account of Aleppo may g 


reader an idea of the other Torkiſh Cities. 

Bagdat, built upon the Tygris, is the capital of the ancien 
dea, and was once the metropolis of the Califate, under thi 
cens, the moſt powerful monarchy on earth, It retains þ 
marks of its ancient grandeur, It is rudely fortified, but tl 


veuĩency of its ſituation renders it one of the ſeats of the 
government, and has ſtill a conſiderable trade, being annual 
ted by the Smyrna, Aleppo, and Weſtern caravans. 
Ancient Aſſyria is now called the Turkiſh Curdiſtan, thou 
of it is ſabjc to the Perſians. The capital is Curdiltanz 
cieat Niniveh being now a heap of ruins. Curdiſtan is ai 
for the moſt part cnt out of a mountain; and is the relide 
a viceroy, or beglerb-g-Orfa, formerly Edeſſa, is the capital 
fine province of Meſopotamia, It is now a mean place, and 
ſupported by a manufacture of Turkey leather. ; 
orgia, or Gurgiſtan, though ſubje& to the Turks, is 
peopled by Chriſtians, a brave, warlike race of men, and 0 
war with the Mahometans. Their capital, Teſtis, is a handſt 
ty, and makes a fine appearance, its inhabirants being about 
The Georgians in general are by. ſome travellers ſaid to be the 
ſomeſt people in the world ; and ſome think that they early N 
the practice of innoculation for the ſmall pox They make n 
ple of ſelling and drinking wines in their capital, and other t 
and their valour has procured them many diſtinguiſhing live 
privileges. 
The ancient cities of Damaſcus, Tyre and Sidon, ſtill 
of their former trade. Damaſens is called Sham, and they ap 
to it by the river is inexpreſſibly beautiful. It contains a ſine n 
which was formerly a Chriſtian church. It ill is famous 
ſteel works, fuch as ſword- blades, knives, and the like; the 
lent temper of which is faid to be owing to a quality in 


- 
* 1 


TURKEY 1x EUROPE AND ASIA. 


521 


ofe-water, extracted from the famous damaſk roſes, fruits, 
The neighbourhood of This city is ſill beautiful, eſpeci- 


te Turks, who delight in verdure and gardens. . Sidon, 
me viſe yes within the ancient Phenicia, has Rill ſome trade, 
anſe able harbour. Tyre, now called Sur, about 20 miles 


zun Sidon, ſo famous formerly for its rich dye, is dow on- 
ied by a few miſerable fiſnermen, who live in the ruins of 


wit grandeur. 
umphylia, Piſidia, Lycoania, Cilicia, Cappadocia, and 


hiſtory, are now, through the Turkiſh inſolence and ty- 
ther forſaken, or a theatre of ruins, The ſites of ancient 
fill diſcernible, and fo luxurious is nature in thoſe coun- 
tin many places ſhe triumphs over her forlorn condition. 
Turks cultivate no more land than maintains themſelves, 
| gardens and ſummer-honſes fill up the circuit of their moſt 
cities. The moſt judicious travellers, upon an attentive 
thoſe countries, fully vindicate all that has been ſaid by 
ad profane writers of their beauty, ſtrength, fertility, and 
Even Paleſtine and Judea, the moſt deſpicable at pre- 
ll thoſe countries, lyes buried within the luxuries of its own 
Turks ſeem particularly fond of repreſenting it in the 
adfal colours, and have formed a thouſand fallhoods con- 
* which being artfully propagated by ſome among ourſelves, 
led upon weak Chriſtians r. 


libited as a picture of all that is ſhocking and unnatural in 
power. But from the late accounts of Sir James Potter, 
d at the Porte, in quality of ambaſſador from his Britan- 
Y, it appears that the rigours of that deſpotic government 
rably moderated by the power of religion. For though 
Wire there is no hereditary ſuceſſion to property, the rights 
Wuale may be rendered fixed and ſecure, by being annexed 
Burch, which is done at an inconſiderable expence. Even 
Ichriſians may in this manner ſecure the enjoyments of 


indſc 
out 3 0 | ; their 
the 

ly re rererend Dr Shaw, profeſſor of Greek at Oxford, who ſcems to have 
ke n 


iu country with an uncommon degree cf accuracy, and was qualified 
elt philoGphy, to make the moſt juſt obſervations, ſays, that was the 
s well cultivated as in former times, it would be more fertile than the 
Þ of Syri- and Phoenicis, becauſe the ſoil is generally much richer, and, 
onſide red, yields larger crops. Therefore the barrenneſs, ſays he, of 
wthors complain, does not proceed from the natu:al unfrui:fuineſs of 
dot from the want of inhabitants, the indolence which prevails among 
polſets it, and the perpetual diſcords and depredations of the pe:ty priu- 
ne OO (his ane country. 
& inbabitants can have but little inclination to cultivate the earth. © Tn 
lays Mr Wood, we have often ſeen the huſbandman ſowing, secompa- 
n armed friend, to prevent his being Tobbed of the ſeed.” And, after 
bug is uncertain whether he ſhall erer reap the karvelt, ? 


znts till manufacture thoſe beautiful ſilks called Damaſks, 
ir city, and carry on a conſiderable traffic ia raw and work- 


or Aſia Minor, | comprehendi the ancient provinces of © 


* Amaſia ; all of them territories celebrated in the Greek 


tion and Government.) The Turkiſh government is com- ve 


N 
: 


$22 TURKEY iv EUROPE dts ASIA. 
their lands to the lateſt poſterity 3 and ſo ſacred and inne 
this law been held, that there is no inflance of an attem 
_ "fide of the prince to treſpaſs or reverſe it. Neither does t 
vance of this jaſtitution altogether depend on the ſuperſtition 
fultan ; he knows that any attempt to violate it, would! 
foundations of his-throne, which is ſolely ſupported by th 
religion. Were he to treſpaſs theſe laws, he becomes an inf 
ceaſes to be the lawful ſovereign. The ſame obſervation es 
all the rules laid down in the Koran, which was deſigned } 
met, both as a political code, and as a religious ſyſtem, 
there enacted, having all the force of religious prejudices td 
them, are inviolable ; and by them the civil rights of the Mal 
are regulated. Even the comments on this book, which explai 
where it is obſcure, or extend and compleat what Mahomet 
imperfect, are conceived/tobe of equal validity with the fir 
tion of the prophy ; and no member of the ſociety, howeve 
ful, can tranſgreſs them without cenſure, or violate them 
puniſhment. | | 
The Aſiatic Turks, or rather ſubjects of the Turkiſh emp 
Hold their poſſeſſions by a kind of military tenure, on con 
their ſerving in the field with a particular number of men, thi 
ſelves, while they perform that agreement, almoſt indep 
his majeſty, who feldom calls for the head or the eſtate of 
who is not an immediate ſervant of the court. The mot 
ſubjects of the PTurkiſh government are thoſe who app 
higheſt dignities of ſtate, and whoſe fortunes ate conſtant] 
to ſudden alterations, and depend on the breath of ny 
ſter. There is a gradation of great officers in Turkey, of 
viſir, or prime viſir; the chiayia, ſecond in power to 
the reis effendi, or ſecretary” of ſtate, are the moſt 
able. Theſe, as well as the Muſti, or high prieſt, the bs 
governors of provinces, the civil judges, and many ot 
commonly raiſed by their application and aſſiduity, from 
eſt ſtations in life, and are often the children of Tartar, 
an ſlaves taken in war. Tutgred in the ſchool of Adverkit 
riving at pre- eminence, through a thouſand difficulties and 
theſe mien are generally as diſtinguifhed for abilities, as dt 
virtue. They poſſeſs all the diſſimulation, intrigue, and ce 
which often accompanies ambition in a humble rank, and ec: 
a farther reaſon for plundering the !people, becauſe they a8 
tain how long they may poſſeſs the dignities to which they Nn 
ved. The adminiſtration of juſtice, therefore, is extreme|Wncr. 
over the whole empire; but this proceeds from the manner. 


judges, and not from the laws of the kingdom, which aro or 

on very equitable principles. ' Cor 
Revenues, } The riches drawn from the various provmel 

empire muſt be immenſe. Ihe revenues ariſe from the cull ,, 


a Variety of taxes which fall chiefly on the Chriſtians, ol 1 
ſubjects not of the Mahometan religion. Another branch C 
venue ariſes from the annual tribute paid by the Tartars WW:«;/ 
nations bordering upon Turkey, but governed by their 3 
and laws, All theſe, however, are trifling, when compa | 


1 * 
: 


TURKEY rw EUROPE any ASIA- . 523. 


ams extofted ſrom of provinces, and officers of 

ir the name of preſents. Theſe barpies, to indemnify them 
ve have already obſerved, exerciſe every ſpecies of opprel- , 

their avarice can ſuggeſt, till becoming wealthy from the 

the countries they are ſent to govern, their riches frequent - 

iſe to a pretended ſuſpicion of difloyalty or, miſconduct, and 

L fortune of the offender devolves to the crown. The de- 

Win is {cldom acquainted with the nature of the offence, or . 

s of his accuſers ; but, withant giving him the leaſt oppor- 
# waking a defence, an officer js diſpatched, with an impe- 
me to take off his head; The unhappy baſſa receives it with 
jet reſpect, putting it on his head, and after he has read it. 
ſh will of God and the emperor be done, or ſome ſuch expreſ- 
vliffing his entire reſignation to the will of his prince. Then. 
& the lilken cord, which the officer has ready in his boſom, 
vg tied it about his own neck, and fad a ſhort prayer, the 
krvants throw him on the floor, and drawing the cord ſtrait, 
batch him; after which his head is cut off, and carried to 


* 


w 


The militia of the Turkiſh empire is of two ſorts ; the 
certain lands appointed for their maintenance, and the o- 
ppaid out of the treaſury. Thoſe that have certain lands a- 
to about 268,000. troopers, effective men. Beſides theſe, 


ape allo certain auxiliary forces raiſed by the tributary coun- 
fant] this empire; as the Tartars, Walachians, Moldavians, and 
of tus, sho are commanded by their reſpective princes. In 
, belides the above forces, there are great numbers of vo- 


to 
rolt 
» by 
y ot 
om 
ir, of 
erfit 
; and 
as de 
ad cc 
and 
hey 
they 
-emel 
nannd 


h are 


N who live at their own charge, in. expectation of ſucceeding 
rs, Theſe adventurers do nat only promiſe theniſelves an 
they ſurvive, but are taught, that if they die in a war a- 
tte Chriſtians, they ſhall go immediately to paragiſe. The 
which receive their pay from the treaſury, are called the 
or horſe · guards, and are in number about 12,000; and the 
e or foot · guards, are eſteemed the beR ſoldiers in the Turk - 
wes, and on them they principally depend in an engage- 
Theſe amount to about 25,000 men, who are quartered in 
ar Conſtantinople, They frequently grow mutinous, and 
FXceeded ſo far ſometimes as to depoſe the ſultan. They are 
kd in the ſeraglio, and trained up to the exerciſe of arws from 
cy; and there are not leſs than 1c0,000 foot ſoldiers, ſcat- 
der. every province of the empire, who procure themſelves to 
red in this body, to enjoy the privileges of janizaries, which 
great, being ſubject to no juriſdiction but that of their aga, 
commander. 5 
vine 
e cull 


d Titles} The emperor's titles are ſwelled with all the 


us, of Eaſtern magnificence. He is ſtiled by his ſubjects, The 
inch %, 4 Cod on Earth, Brother to the Sun aud Moon, Diſpaſer 
es arte crowns, &c, The grand ſignior's arms are, vert, a 
0 | 


© argent, crelſled with a turbant, charged with three black 
Id leran's quills, with this motto, Donec totum impleat or bem- 


ompi 
| 3 v2 Court, 


© AT tes hs 
[Th TURKEY IN EUROPE %% ASH. 
Court and Seraglio.] Great care is taken in the edveati 
youths, who are defigned for the flate, the army, or the na 
they are ſeldom preferred till they are about forty years bf f 

they riſe by their merit. They are generally the children'sf 

Man parents, either taken in war, purchaſed, or preſents 
viceroys or governors. of diſtant provinces, the moſt beauti 
made, and ſprightly children, that can be met with, and 
ways reviewed and approved of by the ſignior, before they 
to the colleges, or ſeminaries, where they are educated for 
ments, according to their genius or abilities. | 

The ladies of the ſeriglio, are a collection of beautiful 501 
men, chiefly ſent as preſents from the provinces, and the 
iflands, moſt of them the children of Chriſtian parents. 
admiſſion they are committed to the care of old ladies, taugii 
dancing, and other accompliſhments, and furniſhed with thi 
clothes and ornaments, Theſe ladies are ſcarce ever fuffert 
abroad, except when the grand ſignior removes from one 
another, when a troop of black eunuchs conveys them tot 
which are incloſed with lattices ; and, when they go by la 
are put into cloſe chariots, and ſignals are made at certain d 
to give notice that ndne approach the roads through whi 
march. Among the emperor's attendants are a number 
who act and converſe by ſigns with greatquickneſs ; and ſome 
who are exhibited for the diverſion of his majelty, 


Hiſtery. ] It has been the fate of the moſt Southern and fert 
of Aſia, at different periods, to be conquered by that wa 
| Hardy race of men, who inhabit the vaſt country, known'to 

cients by the name of Scythia, and _— the moderns b 
Tartary. One tribe of theſe people, ed Turks or Tr 
which name fignifies Wanderers, extended its conqueſts 'ur 
rious leaders, and during ſeveral centuries, ſrom the > 
Caſpian, to the ſtraits. of the Dardanelles. Being long reli 
the capacity of body guards; about the courts of the Sarace 
embraced the doctrine of Mahomet, and acted for a long 
mercenaries in the armies of contending princes. Their e 
dence was in the neighbourhood of mount Caucaſus, from 
they removed to Armenia Major, and after being employed 
cenaries by the ſultans of Perſia, they ſeized that-kingde 
ſpread their ravages all over the neighbouring countries. 
ver were without a pretence for invading and ravagmgt 
, Nions of the Greek emperors, and were ſometimes comws 
very able generals. Upon the declenſion of the califate or gt 
the Saracens, they made themſelves maſters of Paleſtine; 
viſiting the Holy city of Jeruſalem, being then part of the d 
exerciſes, in which they had been tolerated by the Bade 
Turks laid the European pilgrims under ſuch heavy conn? 
and exerciſed ſoch horrid eruelties upon the Chriſtian inhab 
the country, as gave riſe to the famous Cruſades. . 

It unfortunately happened that the Greek emperors were 

ly more jealous of the progreſs of the Chriſtians than the 
and though after octans of blood were ſpilt, a Chriſtian ® 


TURKEY 1x RUROPE ao: ASIA. 5 
4d at Jeruſalem under Godfrey of Bouillon, neither be nor 
ors were poſſeſſed of any real power for maintaining it. 
hyks, about the year 1347, had extended their dominions on 
te, and poſſe ſſed themſelves, under Othman, of ſame of the 
Movinces in Aſia, of Nice, and Pruſa in Bithynia, which Oth - 
aſe his capital, and, as it were, firſi embodied them into a 
; hence they took the name of Othmans from that leader, the 
don of Turks, as it ſignifies in the original, wanderers or 
men, being eonſidered by them as a' term of reproach. 
vas ſucceeded' by a race of the moſt warlike princes that are 
ed in hiſtory, About the year 1257; they paſſed the Helle - 
md got a footing in Europe; and Amuratk ſettled rhe feat of 
wire at Adrianople. Such was their conqueſts, that Bajazet IL. 
leating the Greek emperor Sigiſmund, laid ſiege to Conſtan - 
in hopes of ſubjecting all the Greek empire. His greatneſs 

bblence provoked Tamerlane, who was juſt then returned from 
fern conqueſts, to declare war againſt him. A deciſive bat - 
ſonght between thoſe rival conquerors, in the plaiu where 
deleated Mithridates, in which Bajazet's was cut in 
\ and he himſelf taken priſoner. The ſacceflors dt Tamerlane, 
ring war againſt one another, left the Turks mort | 
der; and though their career was checked by the valour cf 
etians and Hungarians, they gradually reduced the domi- 
of the Greek emperors; and, after a long ſiege, Mahomet II. 
(nttantinople in 1453. But as the Turks, when they extend- 
i conqueſts, did not exterminate, but reduced the nations to 
Won, the remains of the ancient — ſtill exiſt, particularly 
ulantinople, and the nei uring iſlands, where, though un- 
rerous oppreſſions, they — — under their own 
vets, Ic is ſaid that the modern Greeks, though pining un · 
tyrannical yoke of the Turkiſh government, - (till 
bat of the exterior appearance, though nothing of the internal 
es which diſtinguiſhed their anceſtors. 
* conqueit of Conſtantinople was followed by the ſubmiſſion of 
mece, and from this time the Purks have been looked upon as 
Wropean power. 
Womet died in 1481, and was ſucceeded by Bajazet II. who 
xd on the war againſt the Hungarians and Venetians, as well 
kerlians and Egyptians. Bajazet falling ill of the gout, be, 
idolent, was harraſſed by family differences, and at laſt, by 
his ſecond ſon, Selim, he was poiſoned by a Jew phyſician. 
in afterwards ordered his elder brother, Achmet, to be ſtrang - 
mth many other princes of the Othman race. He defeated 
vans and the prince of Mount Taurus ; but being unable to 
Me into Perſia, he turned his arms againſt Egypt, which, af- 
bloody battles, he annexed to his own dominions, as he 
Aleppo, Achmet, Tripoli, Damaſcus, Gaza, and many other 


ms ſucceeded, in 1520, by his ſon, Soliman the Magnificent; 
Ang advantage of the differences which prevailed among the 
an powers, took Rhodes, and drove the knights from that 
0 Malta, which was given them by the emperor 2 — 


' 0 cede Taurus, Teflis, and many other cities, to the Tur 


; a | » 2 : Os 4 | | 4 ‚ 
526 | TURKEY. ix EUROPE A ASIA. 
The reign of Soliman, after this, was à continual war with the 
ſtian powers, and generally ſucceſsful, both by. fea and lane 
he miſcarried in an attempt he made to take the iſle of Malta. 
Soliman is looked upon as the greateſt prince that ever 
He was ſucceeded, in 1566, by his ſon, Selim II. In his 
the Turkiſh marine received an irrecoverable blow from the ( 
ans, in the battle of Lepanto. This defeat might have prove 
to the Turkiſh power, had the blow been purſued by the Cheri 
eſpecially the Spaniards. .. Selim, however, took. Cyprus ſre 
Venetians, and Tunis, in Africa, from the Moors. He wall 
ceeded, in 1575, by his ſon, Amurath III. who forced the P 


likewiſe took the important Fortreſs of Raab, in Hungary; in 
he was ſucceeded by Mahomet III. The memory of this x gd 


diſtinguiſhed, by his ordering nineteen of his brothers to bet 
and ten of his father's concubines, who were ſuppoſed to be 
nant, to be thrown into the ſea, He was often unſucceſoſul 
wars with the Chriſtians ; and died of the plague in 1604, 
| his ſucceflor, Achmet, was beaten by the Perſians, yet he 
the Auſtrians to a treaty in 1606, and to conſent that he 
keep what he was poſſeſſed of in Hungary. Oſman, a prince 0 
ſpirit, but no more than ſixteen years of age, being unſuccelif 

inſt the Poles; was put to death by the janizaries, whoſe poli 
intended to have reduced. Morad IV. ſucceeded in 1624, an 
Bagdate from the Perſians. His brother, Ibrahim, ſucceeds 
in 1640; a worthleſs, inactive prince, and ſtrangled by thejan 
in 1648. His ſucceſſor, Mahomet IV. was excellently well fer 
His grand viſir, Cuperli. He took Candy from the Veneti 
it had been beſieged for 30 years, This conqueſt coſt the Ve 
and their allies, 80,000 men, and the; Turks, it is faid, 1 
A bloody war ſucceeded between the imperialiſts and the Tull 
which the latter were ſo ſucceſsful,- that they laid ſiege to 
but were forced to raiſe it with, great loſs, by John Sobielki, 
Poland, and other Chriſtian generals. Mahomet was, - in 
— up 2 priſon by his ſubjects, and ſucceeded by his brothe 

iman II. Tg ! | | 

The Turks continued unſucceſsful in their wars during this 
and that of his brother and ſuceeffor, Achmet II. but Maltap 
who mounted the throne in 1694, headed his armies. in pero 
after ſome briſk campaigas, he was defeated by prince E 
and the peace of Curlowitz, between the Imperialiſis and 
was concluded in 2699. Soon after, Muſtapha was depoſe 
Muſti was beheaded, and his brother, Achmet III. mount 
throne, He was the prince who gave ſhelter, at Bender, to 
XII. of Sweden; and ended à war with the Ruſſians by 4g 
peace concluded at Pruth. He had afterwards a war with 
netians, which alarmed all the Chriſtian powers. The ſcene 
tion was tranſlated to Hungary, where the imperial general 
Eugene, gave ſo many repeated defeats to the infigels, is 
were forced to conclude a diſgraceful peace, at Paſſarowitz, i 


An unfortunate war with the Perſians, under Kouli Thau 


— ” Cl er owes >” — . —— — 


* 


N -  - © aw 


& populace demanded the heads of the Viſir, the chief admi- 
ad the ſecretary, which were accordingly firuck off; but Ach⸗ 
n depoſed, and Mahomet V. advanced to the throne.' He 

aucceſsful in his wars with Kouli Khan, and at laſt obliged 
wnize that uſurper as ſophi of Perſia, He was, after that, 
4 in a war with the Imperialiſts and Ruſſians; againſt the 
be was victorious, but the ſucceſſes of the latter, which threat · 
ſonſtantinople itſelf, forced him to agree to a halty treaty with 
averor, and after that to another with the Ruſſians, which 
peatly to his difadyantage. Mahomet died in 1754. He was 
wed by his brother, Oſman III. who died in 1757, and was 
wed by his brother Muſtapha III. born in 1723, who died Ja- 
u 1774, is the 58th year of his age, and 17th of his reign, 
nidſt of a very unſucceſsful war with the Ruflians. He was 


igour. Bad ſucceſs, however, ſtill attended his arms. The 
| Vizir, who was commander in chief of his forces, is ſaid to 
keen abandoned by no leſs. than 140,000 of his men, and obli- 


general Romanzow. Theſe articles, the Divan at Conſtanti - 
ound themſelves obliged to agree to, as they were in no 

wto bring more armies into the field. dd 

v principal articles of this treaty were. The independeney of 
, which formerly furniſhed the Porte with no leſs than 100,000 
{the abſolute ceſſion to Ruſſia of Kelburn, Kerebe, and Jeni- 
V and all the diſtrict between the Bog and the Dmiepier, a 
prigation in all the Turkiſh ſeas : in which is included the paſ- 
rough the Dardanelles, with all the privileges and immuni- 
wich are granted to the moſt favoured nations. Ruſſia re- 
all her conqueſts except Azoph and Toganrok.— This peace, 
as to Kuſſia, was figned on the 21ſt of July 1774. 


„ 
S TUATion AND — 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 1300 35 and 60 Eaſt longitude. 
breadth — ho ere : 12 and 3o North latitude, 


Maries,] ROUNDED by Turkey on the North; by the 

5 gulphs of Perſia or Baſſora, and Ormus, which 
Me it from Perſia, on the Eaſt 3 dy the Indian ocean, South; 
* Red Sea, which. divides it from Africa, on the Weſt. 


ded by his brother Abdulbamet, who purſued the war with * 


p agree to a peace, the articles of which were dictated by the : 


4A K ABT 4 


[ Haggiaz or Mecca -}- f Mscca, E. loin 
* p 2 | 40 , * N. lat. 21 , 
2 i (572143 > < Siden bs 90 EF i 
Tehama  — — J {Dhafar 
4 { Mocho: — =— - J Mocno, E. len 
v. ECD £34 92 1 : N. lat, 13- 
3. Arabia Felix, } Calſcen — L. 
MY ge 5 j ger „r. PA 
- 3" - | Omanior Muſcat * 
g | Jamama . — 13.& i 


i464 U 2g n 
Name.) It is remarkable that this country has always 
its ancient name. The word Arab, it is generally faid, fig 
robber, or freebooter, The word Saracen; by which one t 
called, is ſaid to ſignify both a thief and an inhabitant-of-t 
fart, Theſe names juſtly belong to the Arabians, for they 4 
let any merchandize paſs through the country without ex 
ſomething from the owners, it they. do not rob them. 


: Mountaine.] The moſt ne the ehm ie of Sinai a 
reb, lying in Arabia Petræa, Eaſt of the Red - Sea, and thoſe 
5 Gabel el Ared, in Arabia Felix. | 5 25.27 . 


Rivers, Seas, Gulphs, and Capes.] There are few fountains, i 

or rivers in this country, except the Euphrates, which wall 

_ North-Eaſt limits of it. It is almoſt ſurrounded with ſeas; 

Indian Ocean, the Red-Sea, the gulphs of Perſia and Ormus 

: _ capes or promontories are thoſe of Roſalgate and 
ledon. r aA 


Climate, Air, Soil, and Produce ] The air in this country 
ceſſive dry and hot, and the country is ſubject to hot poiſonovs 
like thoſe on the oppoſite ſhores of Perſia, which often prove 
eſpecially to ſtrangers. The ſoil, in ſome parts, is nothing 
than immenſe ſands, which, when agitated by the winds, ! 
the troubled ocean, and ſometimes form mountains, by which 
caravans have been buried or loſt. In theſe defarts, the e 
having no tracks, are guided, as at fea, by a compaſs, or 
ſtars, for they travel chiefly in the night. This country 
unleſs ſometimes at the equinoxes, refreſhed with rain: and 
tenſeneſs of the cold in the night is almoſt equal to that of th 
in the day time, The Southern part of Arabia, deſerved!y 
the Happy, is bleſſed with an excellent ſoil, and, in genera 
fertile. There the cultivated lands, which are chiefly abe 


* 4 


K kk $4 $29. 


vir the ſea-coalt, produce balm of Gilead, manna, myrrh, 

hes, frankincenſe, ſpikenard, and other valuable gums ; 

pepper, cardamum, oranges, lemons, pomegranates, 

| other fruits; honey and wax in plenty, with a ſmall quan- 

warn and wine, But this country is moſt famous for its cof+ 

u dates, which laſt are found ſcarce any where in ſuch per- 
s here and in Perſia. - There are few trees fit for timber in 

ud little wood of any kind. 


4%] The moſt uſeful animals in Arabia are camels and dro- 
u they are amazingly fitted by providence for traverſing the 
lparched deſerts of this country, for they are ſo formed, that 


throw up the liquor from their ſtomach into their throat, 


d means they can travel fix or eight days without water. 
els uſually carry Boo weight upon their backs, which is not 
during the whole journey, for they naturally kneel down 
ad in due time rife with their load. The dromedary is a 
anel that will travel many miles a-day. It is an obſervation 


Ide Arabs, that wherever there are trees, the water is not 
ud when they draw near a pool, their camels will ſmell it 


ance, and ſet up their great trot till they come to it. The 
w horſes are well known in Europe, and have contributed to 
the breed of thoſe in England. They are only fit for the 
nd are admired for their make as much as for their ſwifts 
| tigh metle. | 


tents, Manners, Cuſtoms, and Dreſs.) The Arabians, 
middle ſtature, thin, and of a ſwarthy complexion, with 
ar and black eyes. They are ſwift of foot, excellent horſe- 
Wd are {aid to be a brave people, expert at the bow and lance, 
ee they became acquainted with fire arms, good markſmen. 
abitants of the inland country live in tents, and remove from 
b place with their flocks and herds, as they have ever done 
ke) became a nation. In general they are ſuch thieves by na- 
Wt travellers and pilgrims, who are led thither from all na- 
rough motives of devotion or curioſity, are ſtruck with ter - 
fiir approaches towards the Deſerts. Thoſe robers, head- 
Kaptain, traverſe the country in confiderable troops on horſe- 
Zult and plunder the caravans; and we are told, that fo 
tte year 1750, a body of 50,000 Arabians attacked a cara- 
terchants and pilgrims returning from Mecca, killed about 
rſons, and plundered it of every thing valuable, though 
ly a Turkiſh army. On the ſea · coaſt they ate mere pi- 
ad make prize of every veſſel they can maſter of whatever 


ubit of the roving Arabs is a kind of blue fhirt, tied about 
ma white ſaſh or girdle; and ſome of them have a valt of 
ep-ſkins over it; they alſo wear drawers, and ſometimes 
but no ſtockings ; and have a cap or turban on their heads. 
i them g0 almoſt naked ; but, as in the Eaſtern countries 
"are ſo wrapped up, that nothing can be diſcerned daß 

. Like other Mahometans, the Arabs eat all manner © 
3 X fleſb, 


4 


: , | 
* 


„ K © # 0 

fleſh, except that of hogs; and prefer the ſſeſh of camel; 
meat. They take care to drain the blood from the Aeſh 
Jews do, 'and like them refuſe ſuch” fiſh" as have no ſcales. | 


and tea, water, and ſherbet made of oranges, water and ſ 
their uſual drink; they have no ſtrong liquors, 


_ - Religion ] Of this the reader will find an account in the 5, 
hiſtory of Mahomet their countrymen. Many of the wild 
are ſtill Pagans, but the people in general profeſs Mahometa il 


| Learning and Language.] Though the Arabians-in form 
were famous for their learning and fill in all the liberal ar 
is ſcarce a country at preſent where the peqple are ſo unive 
norant. The vulgar language uſed in the three Arabias is 
rabeſk, or corrupt Arabian, which is likewiſe ſpoken, wit 
variation of diale&, over great part of the Eaſt, from Egyp 
court of the great Mogul. The pure old grammatical Arabic 
is ſaid to be a dialect of the Hebrew, af by the people of t 
accounted the richeſt, moſt energetic and copious languagh 
world, is taught in their ſchools, as Greek and Latin is 4 
the Europeans, and ufed by Mahometans in their workhip 
the Koran was written in this language, they will not ſuffer 
read in any other; they look upon it to have been the lang 
Paradiſe, and think no man can be maſter of it without a mir 
_ conſiſting of ſeveral millions of words. The books which treat 
they have no ſewer than 1000 terms to expreſs the word ca 
oo for that of a lion. The Pater-nofter in the Arabic is as 
Auna elladbi fi ſammwat ; et taddas eſinac; tati malacutus: 
\ maſchiatac, cama fi-ſama ; kedhalec ala lardh aating ehobzeng 
iaum beiaum ; wag for lena donubena, wachataina, cama nyfor 
[tmen aca doina ; wala tadalhchalna fi-hajarit ; laten ine 
ſeherir. Amen. 


© Chief Cities, Curioſities; and Arti. ] What is called the L 
Sinai, is a beaut:ful plain near nine miles long and above t 
breadth; it lycs open to the North-Eaſt, but to the South 
cloſed by ſome of the lower emmencies of Mount Sinai; an 
parts of that mountain make ſuch encroachments upon the | 
to divide it in two, each fo capacious as to be ſufficient to 
the whole camp of the Iſraelites. 

From Mount Sinai may be ſeen Mount Horeb, where Mo 
the flocks of Jethro, his father-in-law, when he ſaw the burn 
On thoſe mountains are many chapels and cells, poſſeſſed 
Greek and Latin monks, who, like the religious at Jerulale 
tend to ſhew the very ſpot where every miracle or tranfanc 
corded in ſcripture happened. 

The chief cities in Arabia are Mocho, Aden, Muſchat a 
where molt of the trade of this country is carried on z. but 
Mecca, which is the capital of all Arabia, and Medina, deſe 
ticular notice. At Mecca, the birth place of Mahomet, b 
ſo glorious that it is generally counted the moſt magnificent 
zmple in the Turkiſh dominions : its lofty roof being raiſe 
Aion of a dome, and covered with gold, with two desu 


or 2 
F theit 


Bi 


K A N N Bor 

al, of extraordinary height and architecture, make a delight · 
ance, and are conſpicuous at a great diſtance. The moſque 
hundred gates, with a window over each; and the whole 

within is decorated with the fineſt gildings and tapeſtry. 
aber of pilgrims who yearly viſit this place is almoſt incre- 
ger) muſſulman being obliged by his religion to-come bither 
vhs life-time, or ſend a deputy. - PX | 
dina, about 530 miles from the Red Sea, the city to which 
fed when he was driven out of Mecca, and the place 
E was buried, is a ſtately moſque, ſupported by 400 pillars, . 
hed with 300 filver lamps, which are continually burning. 
aled the Moſt Holy by the Turks, becauſe in it is placed 
h of their prop et Mahomet, covered with cloth of gold, 
4canopy of ſilver tiſſue, which the baſhaw of Egypt, by or- 
'the grand ſignior, renews every year. The camel which 
i derives a ſort of ſanctity from it, and is never to be uſed 
tudgery afterwards. Over the foot of the coffin is a rich 
aſcent, ſo curioufly wrought, and adorned with precious 
that it is eſteemed a maſter-piece of great value. Thither 
ms reſort, as to Mecca, but not in ſuch numbers. 


ent.] The inland country of Arabia is under the govern- 
{many petty princes, who are tiled xerifs and imans, both 
gücluding the offices of king and prieft, in the ſame manner 
alis of the Saracens, the ſucceſſors of Mahomet. Theſe mo- 
ppear to be abſolute, both in ſpirituals and temporals; the ſuc- 
$ hereditary, and they have no other laws than thoſe found 
Fran, and the comments upon it. The Northern Arabs 
tion to the Turks, and are governed by baſhaws reſiding 
em; but it is certain they receive large gratuities from the 
nor for protecting the pilgrims that paſs through their 
c from the robberies of their countrymen. 'The Arabians 
planding regular militia, but the kings command both the 
zd the purſes of their ſubjects as the neceſſity of affairs 


] The hiſtory of this country differs from that of all o- 
lr as the ſlavery and ſubjection of other nations make a great 
their hiſtory, that of the Arabs is entirely compoſed of their 
zor independence. The Arabs are deſcended of Iſmael, of 
Jſterity it was foretold, that they fhould be invincible, “ have 
hands againſt every man, and every man's hands againſt 
“ They are at preſent, and have remained from the re- 
des, during the various conqueſts of the Greeks, Romans, 
Wars, a convincing proof of the divinity of this prediction. 
the North, and the ſea-coalls of Arabia, indeed the inhabi- 
© kept in awe by the Turks; but the br ea tribes in the 
Land inland parts, acknowledge themſelves for ſubjects of 
M power, and do not fail to harraſs and annoy all ſtrangers 
de into their country, The conqueſts of the Arabs make as 
al a part of their hiſtory, as the independence and freedom 
dex have erer continued to enjoy. Theſe, as well as their 


3X 2 religivng 


| 


ſtantinople. 
ſelf, and much beyond his condition, He had been emplt 


chant, upon whoſe death he married his widow Cadiga, andi 


many particulars into which the greater part of them were Wl 
He carefully laid hold of theſe particulars, by means of wh 


e 


4 N — IP L as 
k U 1 E k 
_ ' a. 
* f 


— 


& ˙ (RT 

religion, began with one man, whoſe, character ſoptms a 
lar phenomenon in the hiſtory of mankind. © This was the 
Mahomet, a native of Mecca, a city of Arabia Felix.  He\ 
in the ſixth century, in the reign of Jullinian XI, emperor 


Though deſcended of mean parentage, illiterate and pot 
homet was endowed with a ſubtile genius, like thoſe of if 
country, and poſſeſſed an enterprize and ambition peculiar 


the early part of his life, by an uncle, Abuteleb, as a waa 
had occaſion, in this capacity, to travel into Syria, Pale 
Egypt. He was afterwards taken into the ſervice of a rial 


means came to be poſſe ſſed of great wealth and of a numero 
Ty. During his perigrinations into Egypt and the Eaſt, he 
Rod the vaſt variety of ſects in religion, whoſe hatred apal 
other was ſtrong and inveterate, while at the fame time th 


by addreſſing himſelf to the love of power, riches, and p 
paſlions, univerſal among men, he expected to raiſe a new 15 
religion, more general than any which hitherto had been el! 
In this defign he was aſſiſted by a Fr i monk, whoſe | 
diſpoſition had made him ſorſake his cloy iter and proſefſion, 
gage in the ſervice of Cadiga, with whom he remained as a 
when Mahomet was taken to her bed. This monk was pil 
qualified, by his great learning, for ſupplying the defects wt 

maſter, for want of a liberal educaticn, laboured under, and 
in all probability, muſt have obſtructed the execution of his * 
It was neceſſary, however, that the religion they propoſed 
bliſh ſhould have a divine ſanction; and for this purpoſe Ml 
turned a calamity, with which he was afflided, to his adv 
He was often ſubject to fits of the epilepſy, a diſeaſe whic 
whom it afflicts are deſirous to conceal ; Mahomet gave on 
fore that theſe fits were trances, into which he was mirad 
thrown by God Almighty, and 3 which he was inſirt 
his will, which he was commanded to publiſh to the world. 


ſtrange ſtory, and by living a retired, abſtemious, and aul wic 


declared himſelf a prophet, ſent by God into the world, not 
teach his will, but to compel mankind to obey it. He did 


£f Jeſus Chriſt. Egypt and Arabia were filled with Jews, 


he eaſily acquired a character for ſuperior ſanctity among 
quaintance and neighbours. When he thought himſelf ſulla 
fortified by the numbers and enthuſiaſm of bis followers, ben 


the foundation of his ſy{iem ſo narrow as only to compret 
natives of his own country. His mind, though rude and 6 
aſtic, was enlarged by trayelling into diſtant lands, whoſe u 
and religion he had made a peculiar tudy. He propoſed 

ſyſtem he eſtabliſhed ſhould extend over all the neighbouring 
to whoſe dodrines and prejudices he had taken care to adapt 
Faſtern countries were at this time ſtrongly infected with the 
of Arius, who,allowed.the prophetic office, but denied the 


© & 1X 533 
, theſe corners of the world from the perſecution of the em- 
adrian, who threatened the total extinction of that people. 
thr inhabitants of theſe countries were Pagans. "Theſe, how- 
ud little attachment to their decayed and derided idolatry ; 
2 men whoſe religious principle is weak, had given themſelves 
p pleaſure, and ſenſuality, or to the acquiſition of riches, in 
p be the better able to indulge in the gratification of ſenſe, 
J together with, the doctrine of predeſtination, compoſed the 
yciples of their religion and philoſophy. . Mahomet's ſyſtem 
wily ſuited to theſe three kinds of men. To gratify the two 
the declared that there was one God, who created the world, 
raed all things in it; that he had ſent various prophets in- 
rorld to teach his will to mankind, among whom Moſes and 
Criſt were the molt eminent ; but the endeavours of theſe had 
d ineffeual, and God had therefore now ſent his laſt and 
| prophet, with a commiſſion more ample than what Moſes 
it had been entruſted with. He had commanded him not 
ppubliſh his laws, but to ſubdue thoſe who were unwilling to 
er obey them; and for this end to eſtabliſh a kingdom upon 
rich ſhould propagate the divine law throughout the world; 
bd had deſigned utter ruin and deſtruction to thoſe who ſhould 
v ſubmit to him; but to his faithful followers, had given the 
ud poſſeſſions of all the earth, as a reward in this life, and 
pirided for them hereafter a paradiſe of all ſenſual enjoyments, 
a thoſe of love; that the pleaſures of ſuch as died in propa- 
q the ſaith, would be peculiarly intenſe, and vaſtly tranſcend 
I the reſt, Theſe, together with the prohibition of drinking 
piquors (a reſtraint not very ſevere in warm climates) and the 
of predeſtination, were the capital artigles of Mahomet's 
They were no ſooner publiſhed, than a - vaſt many of his 
men embraced them with implicit faith. They were written 
korielt we formerly mentioned, and compoſe a book called the 
* or Alcoran, by way of eminence, as we ſay the Bible, which 
The Book. The perſon of Mahomet, however, was familiar 
inhabitants of Mecca ;z ſo that the greater part of them were y 
ay convinced of the deceit. The more enlightened and 
wen entered into a deſign to cut him off; but Mahomet get - 
mice of their intention, fled from his native city to Medina 
u, or the city of the Prophet. The fame of his miracles 
Kine was, according to cuſtom, greateſt at a diſtance, and 
Wbiants of Medina received him with open arms. From this 
mich happened in the 622d year of Chriſt, the 44th year of 
at's age, and the tenth of his miniſtry, his followers, the 
«ans, compute their time, and the æra is called in Arabic, 
* e. the Flight. 
met, by the aſſiſtance of the inhabitants of Medina, and of 
whom his inſinuation and addreſs daily attached to him, 
Nover all his countrymen to a belief, or at leaſt to an acqui- 
"ll his doctrines. The ſpeedy propagation of his ſyſtem a- 
"Rt Arabians was a new argument in its behalf among the in- 
Ws of Egypt and the Eaſt, who were previouſly diſpoſed to 
Jews, and Gentiles, all ſorſook their ancient my 


534 Þ &.R $ 16 
and became Mahometans. In a word, the contagion- ſprenl 
Arabia, Syria, Egypt and Perſia; and Mahomet, from a J 
hypocrite, became the moſt powerful monarch in his time. 
in 629. leaving two branches of his race; both eſteemed d. 
mong their ſuhjects. Theſe were the caliphs of Perſia and of i 
under the laſt of which Arabia was included. The former of 
turned their arms to the Eaſt, and made conqueſts of many 
tries. The caliphs of Egypt and Arabia directed their ara 
wards Europe, and under the name of Saracens or Moors (Wl 
they obtained becauſe they entered Europe from Mauritania, 
frica, the country of the Moors) reduced moſt part of Spain; F 
Italy, and the Iflands in the Mediterranean. 
In this manner did the ſucceſſors of that impoſtor ſpread th 
ligion and conqueſts over the greateſt part of Aſia, Africa, a 
2 and they ſtill give law to a very conſiderable part of 


o 


© SM © SR 


SITUATION AND ExTEVr. 
Length mm? between 5 45 and 70 Eaſt longitude, 


Breadth 1100 25 and 44 North latitude. 
Boundaries. I MODERN Perſia is bounded by the mount 
Ararat, or Daghiltan, which divide it 
Circaſſian Tartary, on the North-Weſt ; by the Caſpian ſea, 
divides it from Ruſſia, on the North; by the river Ozus, whi 
vides it from Uſbec Tartary, on the North-Eaſt ; by India « 
Eaſt, and by the Indian ocean, and the gulphs of Perſia 
mus, on the South; and by Arabia and Turkey on the Welt 
Modern Perſia comprehends the ancient Hyrcania, Bactria, 
ana, Parthia, Media, and part of Aſſyria, Iberia, and Colchi 
modern diviſions of Perſia are extremely uncertain, and of lit 
portance to the reader. 


Name.] Perſia, according to the poets, derives its name 
Perſius, the ſon of Jupiter and Danae, Leſs fabulous aut hot 
poſe it derived from Paras, which ſignifies a horſeman, the Pe 
or Parthians, being always celebrated for their {kill in horied 


Air.] In ſo extenſive an empire this is very different 
parts whieh border upon Caucaſus and Daghiſtan, and the 
tains near the Caſpian ſea, are cold, as lying in the neighdt 


SL AS EL. 535 

mountains which are commonly covered with ſnow. The 
& midland provinces of Perſia is ſerene, pure, and exhilarat- 
uin the Southern provinces it is hot, and ſometimes commu- 


dr oxious blaſts to the midland parts, which are ſo often mor- 
of | the inhabitants fortify their heads with very thiek turbans. 


ad Productions.) Thoſe vary like the air. The ſoil is far 
ung luxuriant towards Tartary, and the Caſpian ſea, but 
gtivation it might produce abundance of corn and fruits. 
{mount Taurus, the fertility of the country in corn, fruits, 
nd the other luxuries of life, are equalled by ft countries. 
ces wine and oi in plenty, fenna, rhubarb, and the fineſt 
The fruits are delicious, eſpecially their dates, oranges, 
nuts, melons, cucumbers, and garden-ſtuff, not to men- 
quantities of excellent ſilk; and the gulph of Baſſora for- 
krviſhed great part of Europe and, Aſia with very fine pearls. 
ts near Iſpahan eſpecially produce almoſt all the flowers 
n naluable in Europe; and from ſome of them, the roſes e- 
x, they extract waters of a ſalubrious and odorific kind, which 
ipinful commodity in trade. In ſhort, the fruits, vegetables, 
beers of Perſia, are of a moſt exalted flavour; and had the 
the art of horticulture, to as great perfection as ſome na- 
(Europe, by tranſplanting, engrafting, and other meliora- 
bey would add greatly to the natural riches of the country. 
ian aſſa fœtida flows from a plant called Hiltot, and turns 
im. Some of it is white, and ſome black; but the former 
uch valued, that the natives make very rich ſauces of it, and 
Ines eat it as a rarity» | | 


int.] Theſe are Caucaſus and Ararat, which are called the 
bins of Daghiſtan z and the vaſt collection of mountains call- 
us, and their diviſions run through the middle of the coun- 
a Natolia to India. 


It has been obſerved, that no country, of fo great an 
las fo few navigable rivers as Perſia. The moſt conſiderable 


ia 0 & of the Kur, anciently Cyrus; and Aras, anciently Araxes, 
by fle in or near the mountains of Ararat, and joining their 
E 9 


fall into the Caſpian ſea. The ſcarcity of rivers in Perſia, is 
ba ſcarcity of water; but the defect, where it prevails, is 
ly well ſupplied by means of reſervoirs, aqueducts, canals, 
ler ingenious methods. 

(country contains mines of iron, copper, lead, and above all, 
ll ſtones, which are found in Choraſan. Sulphur, ſalt · petre, 
mony, are found in the mountains. Quarries of red, white, 
« marble, have been diſcovered near Tauris, and 

ie province of Carkmenia. 


* 


ants, Manners, Cuſtoms, and Diverſions.) Tt is impoſſible 
& with any certainty concerning the population of a country 
*Mown as that of Perſia. IF we judge by the vaſt armies in 
6 well as in ancient times, raiſed there, the numbers it con- 
dans 


. 


* 


miuins muſt be very great. The Perſians of both ſexes are 
bandſome, the men being fond of Georgian and Cireaſian 


nen. In the morning early they drink coffee, abaut eleven 


night, when they ſup upon pilau. They are temperate, but 


and in all ages they have been remarkable for hoſpitality- 


quality wear very magnificent turbans ; many of them coſt 25 5 


Pleaſure in converſing in large companies; but their chief div 


V./ 


536 TS EY MT. 


Their complexions towards the South, are ſomewhat ſwarth 
men ſhave their heads, but the young men' ſuffer à lock 1 
grow on each ſide, and the beard of their chin to reach up t 
temples ; bur religious people wear long beards. Men of 


and few under nine or ten. They have a maxim to keep thei 
very warm, ſo that they never pull off their caps or their « 
out of reſpe&, even to the king. Their dreſs is very ſimple, 
to the ſkin they wear callico ſhirts, over them a veſt; which 
below the knee, girt with a ſaſh, and over that a looſe 8 
ſomewhat ſhorter. The materials of their cloaths, howey 
commonly very expenſive, conſiſting of the richeſt furs, filk 
flin, cottons, and the like valuable Ruffs, richly embroidered 
old and filver. The wear a kind of looſe boots on their les 
ippers on their feet. They are fond of ridiug, and very ej 
in their equipages. They wear at all times a dagger in thei 
and linen trowzers, The collars of their ſhirts and cloaths ares 
ſo that their dreſs upon the whole is far better adapted fort 
| ee both of health and activity, than the long flowing robes 
urks. 0 | 
The dreſs of the women is not much different ; their wear, as 
that of the men, is very coſtly, and they are at great pains to 
ten their beauty by art, colours, and waſhes. 
The Perſians accuſtom themſelves to frequent waſhings and 
tions, which are the more neceſſary, as they ſeldom change t 


dinner, upon fruits, ſweet-meats, and milk. Their chief me 


um, though not in ſuch abundance as the Turks, nor are th 
delicate in their entertainments of eating and drinking. Th 
great maſters of ceremony towards their ſuperiors, and fo 
that they accommodate Europeans, who viſit them, with Kool 
they may not be forced to fit croſs-legged. They are fou 
rately fond of tobacco, which they ſmoke through à tube f 
water, ſo as to be cool in the mouth, that when it has been p 
ted by their princes, they have been known to leave their ca 
rather than be debarred from that enjoyment. The Perſians 
turally fond of poetry, moral ſentences, and hyperbole. They 
wars, and their natiqnai revolutions, have mingled the Rative 
ans with barbarous nations, and are ſaid to have taught ther 
mulation ; but they are till pleaſing and plauſible in their det 


The Perſians write, like the Hebrews, from the right to if 
and are neat in their ſeals and materials for writing, and an 
derſully expeditious in the art. The number of people ewpi« 
their manuſcripts (for no printing is allowed there) is ine 

Their great foible ſeems to be oſtentation in their equipag 
dreſſes; nor are they leſs jealous of their women than the 
and other Eaſtern nations. They are fond of muſic, and 


A yy & * 0 7 2237 * A 
: 


g \ ; * A a | , 
12 . | 4e Ss — 
| P...E | R 8 f I. A. OW 4 | 537 0 
of the field, hunting, hawking, horſemanſhip, and the ex- 
ums, in all which they are very dexterous. They excel, 


4 


* 


Til 


mes of chance. 9 , 1 BE 
jay marry for life, or for any determined. time, in Perſia, 
i; through all Tartary; and travellers or merchants, who 
by tay ſome time in any city, commonly apply to the cadee, 
> for a wife during the time he propoſes to ſtay. The ca- 
& x (tated gratuity; produces a. number of ils whom he 
vio be honelt, and free from diſeaſes, and de becomes ee 
A gentleman who lately attended the Ruſſian embaſſy 


daf their diſhoneſty during the time agreed upon. 


„] The Perſians are Mahometans of the ſect of Ali, for 
mſn the Turks, who follow the ſucceſſion of Omar and 
kr, call them heretics. Their religion is, if poſſible, in 
ags more fantaſtical and ſenſual than that of the Turks, but 
points it is mingled with ſome bramin ſuperſtitions. When 
* taxed by the Chriſtians with drinking ſtrong liquors, as 
them do, they anfwer very ſenſibly, „ Lou Chriſtians 
and get drunk, though you know you are 2 ſins, 

the very caſe with us.“ To enumerate their ſuperſtitions, 
ad c:remonies, would require a volume. Having mentioned 
bins, the compariſon between them and the Perſian guebres, 
, who pretend to be the diſciples and ſucceſſors of the an- 
wi, the followers of Zoroaſter, may be highly worth a learn- 
tion: that both of them held originally pure and ſimple 
#2 ſupreme Being, may be eaſily proved, but the Indian 
pand parſes accuſe the gaurs, who ill worſhip the fire, of 
eaſualized thoſe ideas, and of introducing an evil principle 
kgorvernment of the world. A combuſtible ground, about 
* diſtant from Baku, a city in the North of Perſia,” is the 
the guebres devotions, It muſt be admitted, that this 
s impregnated with very ſurpriſing inflammatory qualities, 
tains ſeveral old little temples, in one of which the guebres 
Ito preſerve the ſacred flame of the univerſal fire, which ri- 
the end, and a large hollow cane ſtuck 8 re- 
wa lamp burning, with very pure ſpirits. The Mahometans 
kdeclared enemies of the gaurs, who were banifhed out of 
u Shah Abbas Their ſect, however, is ſaid to be nume- 
Wugh tolerated in very few places. : 
ung wars between. the Perſians and the Romans, ſeem early 
Uriven the ancient Chriſtians into Perſia, and the neighbour- 
tries. Even to this day many ſects are found, that evident- 
Chriſtianity for the ground-work of their religion. Some of | 

alled ſouffees, who are a kind of quietiſts, ſacrifice their paſ- 
Cod, and profeſs the moral duties. The Sabean Chriſtians 
their religion, a mixture of Judaiſm and Mahometaniſm. 
numerous towards the Perſian Gulph. The Armenian and 
u Chriſtians, are very numerous ip Perſia. . » 79 
3 * Lunguage. ] 


- 


wceſtors the Parthians did, in archery, They are fond of _ 
leere, jugglers, and fighting of wild-beafts, and private, 


(declares, that amongſt thouſands, there has not been one 


RET. a 


=y 
1 — . - 


NE. IP y © 8 FAY 
| "Linguage:] Tue Arabi had hot their tanfitage tom hep 
but this chiefly reſts on the great interimixture of Arabic wi 

the Perſian language, and the decifion ſeems to be in fayous 
Atabs. The common people, "_n towards the Souther 
ok the Caſpian fea, ſpeak Lurkiſh, and the Arabic probably 
' troduced into Perſia, under the califate.. The learned perſor 
generally written in the Arabic, and people of quality amos 
Bre adopted it as the modilh language, as. we do the Frenc) 
pure Perſic is ſaid to or in the Wochen parts, on the 
the Perſian gulph, and in Iſpaban, but many of the provited 

a barbarous mixture of the Turkiſh, Ruſſian, and other lan 
Their Pater-noſter is of the following tenor; Ej Padre ma 
oſmoni ; pak baſched nam tu ; bayayed padſchabi tu ; ſebwad ch 

_ henzjunaaukih, der ofmon niz 2 3 beh mara jnirouz 10 
tous mara; wadargudſar mara honahan ma zjunankibma ng 
rim orman mara; wador 02majiſch minedazzmara ; Mis tha 

mara ez eſcherir. Amen. | 


| Learning and Learned Men.] The Perſians, in ancient tit 
mous for both, and their poets renowned all over the E 
"reſent their learning is merely mechanical, nor do they e 
Terltand the Koran, which, they read in Arabic. Their 
ſkill in aſtronomy. is now reduced to a mere ſmattering in 
_ ence, and'terminates in judicial aſtrology ; ſo that no peopli 
world are more ſuperſtitious than the Perſians, The learned 
ſion in greateſt eſteem among them is that of, medicine, why” 
perpetual variance with aſtrology, becauſe every doſe nuf $0 
niſlered in the lucky hour fixed by the. aſtrologer, which © 
feats the ends of the preſcription. It is ſajd however, & 
Perſian phyſicians are acute and ſagacious, Their drugs # 
lent, AE they are no ſtrangers to the practices of Galea a 
cenna. Add to this, that the plague is bur little known Wy” * 
country; as equally rare are many other diſeaſes that are_ 
other places, ſuch as the gout, the ſtone, the head-ach, tha-** 
ach, the ſmall-pox, conſumptions, and apoplexies. The 
Practice of phyſic is therefore pretty much circumſcribed, 
„they are very ignorant in ſurgery, which is exerciſed by 
whoſe chief knowledge of it is in letting blood, for they vent 
healing of green wounds to the excellency of the air, and it 
habit of the patient's body. ING 


Antiquities and Curioſities, natural and artificial] L* aid 
ments of antiquity in Perſia, are more celebrated for their 
cence and expence, than their beauty or taſto No more td 
teen columns which formerly belopged to the famous palace 
ſepolis, are now remaining. Each is about fifteen feet I 
compoſed of excellent Parian marble. The ruins of other ce 
buildings are found in many parts of Perſia, but void of that 
and beauty that is diſplayed in the Greek architecture. Th Wn 

the Kings of Perſia are Iden works, being cut ont wa 
and highly ornamented with ſculptures. The chief of Wt 


edifices is a pillar to be ſeen at Iipahan, 60 feet high) cv 


: 


A - f 
L334 .: © as 
Ls of beaſts, erected by Shah 2 after the ſuppreſſion of 
Son, Abbas had yowed to erect ſuch à column of human 
& bot upon the ſubmithon of the rebels, be performed his vo, 
l;uting thoſe of brates, each of the rebels furniſhing one, 4 
Ehaths near Combrobn,. work ſuch cures, that they are e- 
{ among, the natural curioſities of Perſia. The ſprings of t 
 Kaphtha, near Baku, are mentioned often. in natural hiſ- 
their ſurpriſing, qualities; but the chief of the natural cu- 
«in this country, is the burning phznomenon, and its inflam- 
neighbourhood, already mentioned under the article of Re» 


? 
1 


, Cities, and Public Edifices.] The houſes of men of qua- 
perſia, are in the ſame taſte with thoſe of the Aſiatic Turks. 
re ſeldom above one ſtory high, built of bricks, with flat 
kr walking on, and thick walls. The hall is arched, the doors 
my and narrow, and the rooms have no communication but 
be ball; the kitchens and office-houſes being built apart. Few 
n have chimneys, but a round hole in the middle of the rom. 
x furniture chiefly conſiſts of carpets, and their beds are two 
. quilts, which ſerve them likewiſe as coverlits, with car - 
nder them. 1 25 , r 
an or Spahawn, the capital of Perſia, is ſeated on a fine 
vithin a mile of the river Zenderhend. which ſupplies it with 
It is ſaid to be twelve miles in circumference. The tre 
mom and crooked, and the chief amuſement. of the inhab 

z on the flat roofs of their houſes, where they ſpend their 
r evenings, and different families aſſociate together. The 
phuare is a third of a mile in length, and about half as mu 
ich; and we are told, that the royal palace, with the bull. 
ud gardens belonging to it, is three miles in circninference. 
ware in lpahan 180 moſques, 1800 carayanſeras, 260 public 
a prodigious number of fine ſquares, ſtreets, and palaces, in 
Bare canals, and trees planted to ſhade and better accommodate 
piple. This capital is {aid formerly to have contained 650,090 
kants ; but was often depopulated by Kouli Khan during bis 
ko that we may eaſily ſuppoſe, that it has loſt, great part of 
tent magnificence. In 1744, when Mr Hanway was there, 
vthought that not aboye,5000 of its houſes were inhabited. 

ras lyes about 200 miles to the South of Iſpahan. It is an 
wn, but its neighbourhood is inexpreſſibly rich and beautiful, 
aid out for many miles in gardens, the flowers, fruits, and 
of which are incomparable. The vines of Schiras are reckon- 
@deſt of any in Perſia. 8 | 88 
cities of Ormus and Gombroon, on the narrow part of 
rſian Gulph, were formerly places of great commerce and 
ice, The Engliſh, and other Europeans, have factories 
kubroon, where they trade with the Perſians, Arabians, Ba- 
Armenians, Turks, and Tartars, who come hither with the 
Ms which ſet cut from various inland cities of Aſia, under the 


V of guards. 21 
b Moſques 
3Y 2 


4 
* 1 
— 
5 
= 
a. 


©, v4. a 4 
 _- |" Moſguth and Bapnic.]  Moſtues ure teligivus buittiohs! 
f 27 57 of ſtone; before the chief ow. x is 4 4 
pPaved with White 'marble, and 8 ies round it, whoſe 
ſupported by marble pillars. Thoſe galleries ſerve for places! 
- * Jution before the 'Mabometans go into the moſque. About 
— moſque there are, ſix high towers, called minarets, each of 
has three little open galleries, one above another.” Thel t 
as well as the moſques, are covered with lead, and adornd 
- gilding, and other ornaments ; and from thence, inſtead of 
the people are called to prayer by certain officers appointed 4 
| Purpoſe. No woman is allowed to enter the moſque, nor can 
with his ſhoes or ſtockings on. Near moſt moſques is a place 
tertainment for ſtrangers. during three days, aid” the tomb 
| founder, with conveniencies for reading the Koran, and prayi 
Wo the ſouls of the deceaſed. / .. 
The bagnios in the Mahometan countries are wonderfall 
confirudted for the purpoſe of bathing. Sometimes they are ii 
but oftener circular, built of white well poliſhed ſtone or 
Each bagnio contains three rooms; the firlt for drefling andy 
fing; the ſecond contains the water, and the third the bath; 
them paved with black and white marble. The operation 
bath is very curious, hut wholeſome ; though to thoſe not acct 
ed to it, it is painful. The waiter rubs the patient with pr 
gour, then handles and ftretches his limbs, as if he was 41 
every bone in the body; all which exerciſes are, in thoſe inert 
K Countries, very conducive to health. In public Bagnios, thai: 
| bathe from morning to four in the afternoon, when all male 
dants being removed, the ladies ſucceed, and when coming 
the bath diſplay their flneſt cloaths. va * 


Manufacturer and Commerce.] The Perfians equal; Want en 
all the manufacturers in the world in filk;-woollen, mohair, e 
and leather; and yet they are ignorant of painting, aud their 1 « 
ings are very rude. © Their dying excels that of Europe. "Th 
ver and gold laces, and threads, are admirable for preſerving; 
Juſtre. Their embroideries and horſe furniture are not to be 
led, nor are they ignorant of the pottery, and window-glals | 

factures. On the other hand, their carpenters are very ind! 
artiſts, which is ſaĩd to be owing to the ſcarcity of timber al 

Perſia. Their jewellers and goldſmiths are clumſy workmen 
they are ignorant of lock - making, and the manufacture of lod 

laſſes. * | 4 

* The trade of the Perſians, who have little or no ſhipping be 
own, is carried on in foreign bottoms. That betweet the E igir 
and other nations, by the gulph of Ormus at Gombroon, ® 
moſt gaigful they had, but the perpetual wars they have be 
ed in, have ruined their commerce. The great ſcheme 
1 in trading with the Perſians through Rutha, prom 
ntages to both flations, but it has hitherto an{wered th: 

- tations of neither. | 


” Cenfliturien and Government. Both theſe are extremely pt 1 0) 


* 
oo 


" 


_ 


* "Ce b a | J 2 6 


pz in the breaſt of a deſpotie and oſten eapricious monarch. 
erhans however had ſome fundamental rules of government. 
acluded from their throne females, but not their male pro- 
© Blindneſs like wife was a diſqualification for the royal ſnegeſ- 
ſa other reſpects the king's will was a law for the people. 
ances that have been given of the cruelties and inhumanities 
id by the Mahometan kings of Perſia, are altoſt incredible, 
Ay during the two laſt centuries. The favourites of the prince, 
2s well as male, are his only counſellors, and the ſmalleſt 
dience to their will is attended with immediate death. The Per- 
ure no degrees of nobility, ſo that the reſpect due to every 
in account of his high ſtation, expires with "himſelf. The 
us been known to prefer a younger ſon to his throne, by put» 
lat the eyes of the elder brothers | 1 J 


Þ'nvcs.] The crown claims one third of the cattle, corn, and 

zof his ſubjects, and likewiſe à third of filk and cotton. No 
or condition of Perſians, are exempted from ſevere taxations 
kvices. The governors of provinces have particular lands aſ- 
to them for maintaining their retinues and troops, and the 
lands defray the expences of the court, king's houſehold, and 
tofficers of Rate ; the revenues of the Perſian kings, or as they 
aled Sophis, muſt therefore be prodigious, but nothing can 
bd with any certainty in the preſent diſtracted ſtate of that coun- 
Even the water that is let into fields and gardens is ſabject 
ar, and foreigners, who are not Mahometans, pay each a du- 

; ; 654 p Der A N 


Witary firength.} This conſiſted formerly of cavalry, and it is 
thought to exceed that of the Turks. Since the beginning of 
entury, however, their kings have raiſed bodies of infantry. 
regular troops of both brought to the field, even under Kouli 
5 did not exceed 60,000; but according to the modern hiſto- 
i Perſia, they are eaſily recruited in caſe of a defeat. The 
bns have few fortified towns; nor had they any ſhips of war, 
Louli Khan built a royal navy, but ſince his death we hear no 
of their fleet. * D * | art P42 


w and Titles.) The arms of the Perſian monarch are a lion 
ant looking at the riſing ſun- His title is Sab, ar the. Di/; 
dmr. Shah, or Khan, and Sultan, which he aſſumes like-' 
are Tartar titles. To acts of ſtate the Perſian monarch does 
ſcribe his name, but. the grant runs in this manner, viz. This 
given by him whom the naiverſe obeys. | 


.] The Perſian empire ſucceeded the Aſſyrian or Babyloni- - 

nd Cyrus laid its foundation about 556 years beſore Chrilt ; 
ag the Iſraelites, who had been captive at Babylon, to li- 
) It ended in the perſon of Darius, who was conquered by 
under 329 years before Chriſt, When Alexander's empire was 
el among his great general officers, their poſterity were con- 
«by the Romans. - Theſe laſt, however, never fully 13 


$1 


4 "> * 
n W wn 


politic, proved in general to be a diſgrace human 


_ 
* 


* N + | w 


In * INDIA tx Gzarzaau 
defeated the Roman legions. — The ſucceſſors. of Hg 
ved the Roman empire itſelf, but were ſubdued by then 
merlane, whoſe polterity was ſupplanted by a door ns 
Mahomet. His ſucceſſors, though ſome of he 
_ eruelty, ignorance, and indolence, which beuge 
diſrepute with their ſubjeQs, barbarous | as they were ntl 
a prince of the Sophi race, ho ſucceeded id 1694, Wann 
dy Mahmud, ſon and ſueceſſor to the famous MH 
hitnſelf was by Eſref, one of his general officers, wha 
_ throne. Prince Tahmus, the repreſentative. of the nan 
had eſcaped from the rebels, and aſſembling aw army w_ 
ſervice Nadir Shah, who defeated and killed M wag_ 
to the Perſian monarchy all the places diſmemberet ras 
Turks and Tartars during the late rebelliqn. ACER 
ambition of Nadir broke out, and after afluming then 
mus Kouli Khan, and pretending * his ſervices were 1 
iy rewarded, he rebelled agaiuſt his ſovereign, ag 
and, it is ſuppoſed, put him to death, n. 
This uſurper afterwards. mounted the throne, u 
Shau Nadir. His ſueceſsful expedition into India, hallbens 
ed in the hiſtory of that country. It has been gemarban 
brought back an inconſiderable part af his booty from Gag 
great part of it upon his return by the Maraitas ff 
next conquered Uſbec 'Tartary z but was not {© Rice 
Dagheſtan Tartars, whoſe country he found see 
the Turks in ſeveral engagements, but was unable 2008s 
The great principle of his government was t Srike ns 
his ſubjects by the moſt cruel execution. HA 
intollerable, that it was thought his brain was e 
aſſaſſinated in his own tent, partly in ſelf-defence, Gro 
-cers and his relations, in the year 1%. m 
his death, ſtarted up ; but the fortunate candidate was Kerigh 
who was crowned at Tauris in 1763, and, according; do 
accounts, ſtill keeps poſſeſſion of the throne. 


182 5 1 


/ 1 | —_— 


INDIA IN 6z X£ 8A 
| = =_ 

2 ry TP H18 country is ſituated bet 
Boundaries. and logth degree of Eat ens 


between 1 end 40 of North latitude. , It is heundel 
the countries of Uſbec Tartary and Tibet; on the South i 


* 


dian ocean ; on the Eaſt, by China and the Chineſe f 


% P . . 


INDIE is 0 
| 2 at large is divided iato three great parts 1 firſt, 
Il. of India beyond the Ganges, called the further Fen- 


— 
- 


nd extended empires. Mr Orme e 
bons under the title of Indoſtan. The Mahomerans 
o are called Moors, of Indoſtan, are computed to be 
millions, and the Indians about an handred millions. A- 
ws empire is ſubject to rajahs, or kings, who derive their 
om the old princes 2 India, and exerciſe all rights of ſo: 
only paying a tribute to the great mogul, and obſerving 
N boy which . anceſtors recognized his ſuperiority. | 


bs and Government.) The original inhabitants of India are 
Genitoos, or Hindoos. They pretend that Brumma, who | 
War legiſlator, both in politics and religion, was inferior only 
k ad that he exiſted many thouſand years before our account 
ration. The Bramins (for fo the Gentoo prieſts are called) 
[that he bequeathed-to them a book called the Vidam, con- 
doctrines and inſtitutions ; and that though the original 
oer are ſtill poſſeſſed of a commentary upon it, called the 
Wh, which is wrote in the Sanſerit, now a dead language, and 
Jony ro the bramins who ſtudy it. The foundation of 0 
ine coofilted in the belief of a ſupreme Being, who has 
Wa regular gradation of beings, ſome ſuperior, and ſome in- 
Wo man ; in the immortality of the foul, and a future ſtate of 
ind puniſhments, which is to conſiſt of a tranſmigration in- 
x = bodies, according to the lives they have led in their pre- 
late. | | 
W neceſſity of inculcating this complicated doctrine, into the 
Franks, induced the bram ins, who are by no means unanimous 
wr doQrines, to have recourſe to ſenſible repreſentations of their 
J his attributes; ſo that the original doctrines of Bramma 
generated to ridiculous idolatry, in the worſhip of the moſt 
W gures z and the belief of an omnipotent Being is now al- 
ot among the Gentoos. | | | 
i Indians are divided into tribes, the four principal of which 
bramins, ſoldiers, labourers and mechanics. Theſe are a- 
Walvided into a multiplicity of inferior diſtinctions. The 
Ws have an entire power, which they uſe commonly to very 
purpoſes, over the minds of the people: though ſome of them 
erftitious, moral, and innocent. They are all of them ſuch 
tat excepting the Hallachotes, who are the refuſe and out- 
df the other ** and diſowned and deteſted by them all, 
doubts, whether there ever was an inſtance of any of 
tos being converted by the miſſionaries. 
EE loldiers are commonly called Rajab-poots, or perſons deſcend- 
ix mk and reſide chiefly in the Northern provinces, and 
rally more fair complexioned than the people of the South · 
Nuces, who are quite black. Theſe rajah-poots are a robuſt, 
powerful people, and enter into the ſervice of thoſe who will 
Mu; but when their leader falls in battle, they * 
| | iP 


- 


* 


— Ow Q —ÿ ꝑ .. — —— —? 


and their women at ten or eleven years of age, keeps them 16 


gan, in the reigns of the califs of Bagdat, to invade Indoſtan. 


* * 


a — cp , - X 139 
8 1 * a A | 1 * N £ . . 
x ©. 1 . | IIS 8 = F404 
$44 - INDIA IN GEA 
>. . T9 . 0 d 4 


their' engagements to him are finiſhed, and they run off th 
without any ſtain upon their reputation. 127 | 

T The labourers are the farmers and all who. are concerned 

cultivation of lands. i 

The mechanics are merchrants, bankers, traders of all kin; 

are divided into many ſubordinations, * 
Thhoſe different tribes are forbid to intermarry, to cohabit, 

with each other, or even to drink out of the ſame veſſel with 
another tribe; and every deviation in theſe points, ſubjects ti 
de rejected by their tribe, renders them fot eyer polluted, ar 
are thencefor ward obliged to herd with the Hallachores. 

Different kinds of food are aſſigned to different tribes, 
mins touch nothing that has life; the ſoldiers are permitted 
veniſon, mutton; and fiſh ; the labourers and merchants live 
ently, according to their ſex and, profefſions, ſome of them be 
lowed to eat fiſh, but none of them animal food. 
| The practice of women burning themſelves, upon the de 

_ their huſbands, is now ſaid to be diſuſed all over Indoſtan ; at 
Gentoos in general chooſe death by famine rather than pollute 
ſelves by eating a forbidden foo. 

- The temples or pagodas of the Gentoos, are ſtupendous, b 
guſtſul ſtone buildings, erected in every capital, and under t 
tion of the bramins. If the bramins are maſters of any uneo 
art or ſcience, they turn it to the purpoſes of profit from their 
rant votaries. They know how to calculate ecliples; and jt 
aſtrology is ſo prevalent among them, that half the year is ta 
with unlucky days; the head aſtrologer being always conſul 
their councils. They are ſuſceptible of avarice, and ſometime 
their money, and rather than diſcover it put themſelves to de 
poiſon or-otherwiſe. This practice, which it ſeems is not n 
mon, accounts for, the vaſt ſcarcity of filyer-that till of late pr 
in Indoſtan. * =_— 

Their perpetual uſe of rice, their chief food, gives them bu 

nouriſhment ; and their marrying early, the males before fo 


ſeeble in their perſons. A man is in the decline of life at thart 
the beauty of the women is on decay at eighteen; at twenty- xf 
have all the marks of old age. It is with them a frequent f 
that it is better to ſit than to walk, to lie down than to fit, td 
than to wake, and death is the beſt of all. 

The Mahometans, who, in Indoſtan, are called Moors, 
Perſian, Turkiſh, Arabic, and other extractions. They 


_ penetrated as far as Delhi, which they made their capital. 

| ſettled colonies in ſeveral places, whoſe deſcendants are cal 
tans ; but their empire was overthrown by Tamerlane, who | 
ed the Mogul government. Thoſe princes being ftrit Mahom 
received under their protection all whe profeſſed the fame rel 
and who being a brave active people counterbalanced'the nu 
of the natives. They are ſaid to have introduced the din 
provinces, over which they appointed ſoubahs; and thoſe rw | 
- each of which might be ſtiled a kingdom, were fubdivides 


l * 


* 
N 8 *? * 


* 83 * "Ep 


each nabob being immediately accountable to his ſoubah, 


tribute 5 


They are a kind of mercenaries, who, live on the mountains 
n ladoſtan and Perſia. They commonly ſerve on horſeback, 
en well commanded, they have been known to give law even 


xe of bold active ſpirits, and pay no great reſpe to the prin- 
;oftheir religion. Mr, Scrafton ſays, that the Mahometans or 
ve of ſo deteſtable a character, that he never knew above 
three exceptions, and thoſe were among the Tartar and Per- 
gers of the army. They are void of every principle even of 
n religion; and if they have a virtue, it is an appearance of 
wity, but it is an appearance only; for while they are drink 
th, and embracing a friend, they will Rab him to the heart. 
þ people of Indoſtan are governed by no written laws, and 
wurts of juſtice are directed by precedents. The Mahometan 
tes prevail only in their great towns and their neighbourhood. 
mpire is hereditary, and the emperor is heir only to his own 
All lands go in the hereditary line, aud continue in that 
nen down to the ſubtenants, while the lord can pay his taxes, 
& latter their rent, both which are immutably fixed in the pub- 
l of each diſtri. iy | | 
þ are the outlines of the government by which this great em- 
ug ſubſiſted, without almoſt the ſemblance of virtue among 
ut officers either civil or military. It was ſhaken, however, 
te invaſion of Mahomet Shah, which was attended by ſo great 
gution of the imperial authority, that the ſoubahs and nabebs 
abſolute in their own governments. Though they could not 
te fundamental laws of property, yet they invented new taxes, 
bbegpared the people, to pay their own armies and ſupport their 
b ſo that many of the people, a few years ago, after being un- 
fully plundered by collectors a:.d tax-maſters, were leſt to pariſh 
h want. To ſum up the miſery of the inhabitants, thoſe ſou» 
ud nabobs, and other Mahometan governors, employ the 
ns and the Gentoos themſelves as the miniſters of their rapa- 
be and cruelties, Upon the whole, ever ſince the invaſion of 


world, is become a ſcene of mere anarchy or ſtratocracy ; every 
tan protects himſelf in his tyranny by his ſoldiers, whoſe pay 
werds the natural riches of his government. As private aſſaſſi · 

k and other murders are here committed with impunity, the 

* who know they can be in no worſe eſtate, concern them- 

ery little in the revolutions of government. ; 5 

* complexion of the Gentoos is black, their hair long, and the 

of both ſexes regular. At court, however, the great fami- 

ambitious of intermarrying with Perſians and Tartars, on ac- 

if the fairneſs of their complexion, reſembling that of their 

ror Tamerlane and his great generals. 


INDIA u OA l l xj 345" 


il thoſe tribes, the Marattas at preſent make the greateſt ſi 


court of Delhi. Though they are originally Gentoos, yet, 


Han, Indoſtan, from being the beſt regulated government 


3 2 The 


q proceſs of time became almoſt independent on the emperor, - 
ie is called, the great Mogul upon their paying him an 


— 


9 = 
: by. * 
- . - 
— — F ˙ —ͤ—.!ö—— Uv! — —_—_ 
—— —-̃— —— — — 


—  —— 
. 


SH | 


* os. 2 & # a. b, — 
£2 , — * = — 0 
5 7 4 = 
* 3 
a 9 


- wy 1 MN 
y K = 
— 3 = : = 
—_— , - / * —_ 
Cx —% . g * 
= 9 
3 — . * 
4 . i a ' k i — XV " _ 2 5 
* >. 4 . % $1 - * * 0 a” —— : . 
, l 1 1 nf 8 + of S | 
« 
$ | X * 
9 . 
. 
| 18 N 
4 22 *. 3 12 Li 4 ** ou . 3 1 * 
— & K n = 
N * 
* 
” 


- - 
* 


Hat 


The Prxtnsvia'of INDIA beyond the Gaxers, | ? 


4-6 the FaxTuER Pentnavia, Y 


SiTvaTION 4D Ez Tux. 


Length 2000 8 2 1 and 30 North latimnde 
Breadth aur, between $ 92 and 199 Eat longitu( 


Boundaries.) TIIIs Peninſula is bounded by Tibet and 
BETS BE on the North; by China, and the Chin 
on the Eaſt ;- by the ſame, and the traits of Malacca, on the $ 

and by the Bay of Bengal and the Hither India, on the Wel 
Grand divifions. & 15 Subdiviſions, Chief towr 
| DI Achem — Chamdara 
On the North-Weſt 4Aya — — © Ara 2 
( Aracan— Aracan 
 f Pegu — J # Pegu, E. lon.g 
| = 17-30. 
| | | Martaban' — . | |; Marta 
On the South-Weſt J Siam — 4 op Siam, E. lon. f 

N N. lat. 14-18. 


* * Tos” 3 „ „„ LY al 1 3 < bu 


Malacca — | Malacca, E. lor 
4 I N. lat. 2-12. 
of Tonquin, - — - { Cachao, or Keet 
On the North-Eaſt ; HA } | long... 105, J 
Laos — — |} | Lanchang +» 


8 Cochin China Thoanoa 
On the South · Eaſt } Camo —_—_ 2 
(Chiampa— Padram 


Name.] The name of India is taken ſrom the river Indus 
of all others was beſt known to the Perſians. The whole 
Peninſula was unknown to the ancients, and is partly ſo 
moderns. | | | 

Air and Climate.] This country is fo little known, that 
differ concerning its air, ſome preferring that of the Sour 
ſome that of the Northern parts. It is generally agreed, 
air of the former is hot and dry, but in ſome places moilt, 
ſequently unhealthy. The climate is ſubject to hurricanes, ligh 
and inundations, ſo that the people build their houſes upe 


| 


Vel 


TS. SD) oo TER „ e 


o , = 
: 
* © 


INDIA Sens Tar Ganets 449 


; but wet and dry. Eaſterly and * Monſoons OT 
|adian word) prevail in this c. 2 


.] Theſe rug "from North to South almoſt the whole 
* the country; but the lands near the * are low, aud au- 
orerflowed in the rainy ſeaſon. | 


The chief are Domea, Mecon, Menan, and Ava. 


and Straits.) The bays of Bengat, Siam, and Cochin-Chi- 
The (traits of Malacca and A ; This Nen of 
Romana, and Bauſac. . 7 
land prada of the different Nations. ] The foil of this Peninſula 
aal in general, and produces all the delicious fruits that are 
in other countries, as well as roots and vegetables It abounds 
& in ſilks, elephants, and quadrupeds, both domeſtic and wild, 
ye common in the Southern kingdoms of Aſia. The natives 
a great trade in gold, diamonds, rubies, topazes, amethyſts, 
Iaher precious Nones. Tonquin produces little or no corn of 
but is the moſt healthful country of all the Peninſula. In 
paces, eſpecially towards the North, .the inhabitants have , 
in their throats, owing to the badneſs of their water. 


Kabitants, Cuſtoms, cud Diverſions. ] The Tonquineſe are extel- 
zechanics and fair traders j but greatly oppreſſed by their king 
neat lords. His majeſty en Kolb the trade, and his factors 
tetail to the Dutch and — nations. The Tonquineſe are 
1 laquer houſes, which are unwholeſome and poiſonous, The 
ein the. South are a ſavage race, and go almoſt naked, with 
ilver and gold ear · rings, and coral, amber, or ſhell bracelets, 
loquin and Cochin-China, the two ſexes are ſcarcely diſtin- 
able by their dreſs, which reſembles that of the Perſians, Ihe 
| of quality are fend of Engliſh brgad-cloth, red or green, and 
vear a dark caloured cotton cloth. In 1 which is thought 
the bet countries in Aſia, the inhabitants prefer dog's fi th 
her animal food. The people of that kingdom pay no taxes, 
kl: the king is ſole proprietor of all the gold and ſilver and 6+ 
netals found in his kingdom. They live however caſily and 


* of his wives and . polygamy being practiſed all 
India, 

Is nnqnelionable that thoſe Indians, as well as the Chineſe, had 
© of eunpowder before it was known in Europe, and the in 
Wn is generally aſcribed to the Azemeſe. The inhabitants of 
but eru diviſion of this Peninſula go under the name of May- 
rom the neighbouriug country of Malaeca. 

people believe in a ſuture ſtate, and when their TR are in- 
a number of animals are buried with them, and ſuch veſſels 
A and ſilver as they think can be of uſe to chem in their future 
lar pcopl: of this Peninſula, are c2:2:208!y very iond of thew, 


32 2 and 


u deſend phem from floads ; and they have no other idea of | 


abi. Aimoſt every houſekeeper has, an elephant for the 


1 
- 


* „* ö ,  -Þ 
- 


1 . 


z 


| 548 * INDTA SIE NON Tar Gaxcts. 
and often make an appearance beyond their circumſtatices; 
delicate in no part of their dreſs but in their hair, which they 


this Pegiuſula'it is chiefly Maylayan, interſperſed with other d 


ſuffered death rather than betray their ſecrets, which are he 


* 
* * 


” "LO 


9 


up in a very agreeable manner. In their food they are loat 
for beſides dogs, they eat rats, mice, ſerpents, and flinkin 
The people of Arraken are equally indelicate in their amn 
they hire Dutch and 'pther foreigners to conſummate the xt 
with their virgins, and value their women moſt when in a 
Pregnancy. 3 | BY. | 

he diverſions common in this country are fiſhing" and hy 
the celebration of feſtivals, and their acting comedies by torel 
from evening to morning. WE 8 


— The language of the court of Delhi is Perſian, 


Learning and Learned Men.] It is more than 'probable th 
Egyptians, the nation from which the Greeks and Romans 
the fine arts, owed them to the Bramins, and the Gentoo 
are ſometimes called Banians, Some late Engliſh amber, 
were, well acquainted with the affairs of Indoſtan, habe afſe 
that that empire ſtill contains men of the moſt unſpotted hy 
profound knowledge of all the original bramin theology, mo 

and civil conſtitutions.” Such men are hard to be diſcoveret 
when acceſſible, they are modeſt and communicative in all bra 
of their learning, but thoſe in which they are enjoined an im 
ſecrecy : and we have ſome well atteſted inſtances where the 


in their families. A. 
Manufacturer and Commerce.] Theſe vary in the different cot 


of this Peninſula. The inhabitants, in ſome parts, are obli 
manufacture their ſalt out of aſhes. -In all handicraft trade 


- they underſtand, the people are more induſtrious and better io 
mien than the Europeans; and in weaving, ſewing, embro F de 
and ſome other manufacture, it is ſaid that the Indians do as ſin 
work with their feet as their hands. Their painting, thoug 
are ignorant of 'drawing, is amazingly vivid in its colours. Wy" i 
fineneſs of their linen, and their fillagree work in gold and bat 

are beyond any thing of thoſe kinds to be found in otherp ges 


0 
beni! 


T 


neſts, 


the world. The commerce of India, in ſhort, is courted by 
trading nations in the world, and probably has been 1 ff 
earlieſt ages: it was not unknown even in Solomon's time; al 
Greeks and Romans drew from thence their higheſt mat 
luxury. 


Conſtitutlon, Governteent, Raritics, and Cities.] This arti Juan: 
quires a ſlight review of the kingdoms that form this Peninſul bund 
Azem, the king is proprietor of all the gold and ſilver: Mui 


little or nothing to the great Mogul. We know little or noth ue 
the kingdom of Tipra, but that it was anciently ſubject to tg. 


of Arrakan; and that they fend to the Chineſe gold and li Pe go 


which they receive filver in return. Arrakan lyes to the bel 


— . 
fn we : F ** 0 . — 


ud ĩs governed by twelve princes, ſubject to the chief king. 
ekdes in his capital. His palace is very large, and contains 


ut 350 Engliſh miles in length, and almoſt the ſame in breadth. 
wcertain whether it is not at preſent ſubject to the king or em- 


fide; ſome of his idols, as big as life, being of maſſy gold 
ter, His revenues ariſe from the rents of lands, of which 
pole proprietor, and from duties on merchandiſe ; ſo that 
think him to be the richeſt monarch in the world, excepting 


gon and a half of ſoldiers to the field, well cloathed and 
j; and he is ſaid to be maſter of 800 trained elephants,” each 
1catle on his back holding four ſoldiers. The eonſtitution of 
ppire is of the feudal kind, for he afligns lands and towns to 


tknow little of the kingdom of Ava: we are not even ſure to 
it belongs. It is ſaid, the honours the king aſſumes are next 
ine, His ſubjeQs trade chiefly in muſk and jewels, rubies, and 
tres. In other particulars, the inhabitants reſemble thoſe of Pe- 
la thoſe kingdoms, arfd indeed in the greatelt part of this Pe- 
a, the doctrines of the Lama or Dairo, the living god, equal- 
prail as thoſe of the bramins. The principles of the Lama are 
akulated for rendering the king a mere-cypher in his govern 

which is entirely veſted in his prieſts and miniſters. . 

: kingdom of Laos or Lahos, formerly included that of Jan- 
jor Jangomay, but we know few particulars of it that can be 
aded upon. It is ſaid to be immenſely populous, to abound in 
& rich commodities as well as the groſs ſuperſtitions of the Eaſt, 
b be divided into a number of petty kingdoms, all of them 


F deſpotic, and lives in inexpreſſible pomp and magniſicence; 
king ol the Lama religion, is the flave of his prieſts and mini- 


le kingdom of Siam, is a large, rich, and flouriſhing kingdom, 
wat it approaches in its government, policy, the quickneſs and 


rp weſs of its inhabitants, very near to the Chineſe. The inhabi- 
by at both ſexes, are more modeſt than any found in the reſt of 
tainſula, Great care is taken of the education of their chil- 


| Their marriages are ſimple, and performed by their talapoins 
delt, ſprinkling holy water upon the couple, and repeating ſome 
, We are told that gold is ſo abundant in this country, that 
E nolt ponderous images are made of it, and that it is ſeen in 
{lntities on the ourlide of the king's palace. Thoſe relations 
bud by modern travellers to be the fictions of French and other 
Maries ; for though the country has mines of gold, their orna- 
e eher exceſſive thin plates of that metal, or a very bright 
Fr at cover wooden or other materigls. 

e gorernment here is exceſſively deipotic; even ſervants muſt 
C before their maſters iu a kaccling poſture; and the mandg- 


113.5 


INDIA BEYOND'THE GAS GEX 54 


4ols caſt in gold of two inches thick, each of a man's height, 
arered over with diamonds and other precious ſtones. Pegu 


if Ava. The riches of the king '(whoever he is) are almoſt | 
Chineſe emperor. He can bring a million, and on occaſion, - 


es upon military tenures. Macao is the great mart of trade 


ip of one ſovereign, who, like his oriental brethren, is abſo- 


- - — — - 
— 
* 
— — — _R_— —_—__—_— — —_—_— ——— —— w — u-. — 
2 Y — — 


Am we Sf Ws > 4 8 © ao Cideatlicoed £4 
9 . * - 4 5 


 ' 0 INDIA ene ran Ganxory. 
diene proſirated before the kiog. Sta, the capital, i 
1 as n large city, but ſcarcely a fixth part of it is inh: 
' _ and the palace is about a mile and a half in circuit, Bankok 
_ © Rands about 18 leaps to the South of Siam, and 12 mile 
khe ſea, is the only place towards the coalt chat is fortifier 
Walls, batteries, and braſs cannon; and the Dutch have a 
at Ligor, which ſtands on the Eaſt fide of the Peninſula at 
ta, but belonging to Siam. e 
„ The Peninſula of Malacca is a large country, and contains 
 _-- © - kingdoms or provinces. . Ie Dutch, however, are faid to 
; real maſters and ſovereigns of the whole Peninſula, being in po 
| of the capital (Malacca ) The inhabitants differ but little from 
in their manner of living; and yet the Malayan language is v4 
ed the pureſt of any ſpoken in all the Indies. Its chief prod 
tin, pepper, elephant's teeth, canes, and gums. - Some miſc 
pretend that it is the Golden Cherſoneſus or Peninſula of the an 
and that the inhabitants uſed to meaſure their riches by bars 9 
£08, The truth is, that the excellent fituation of this country admi 
trade with India; ſo that when it was firtt diſcovered by the 
gueie, who were afterwards expelled bythe Dutch, Malacca w 
richeſt city in the Eaſt, next to Goa and Ormus, being the 
the China, the Japan, the Moluceas, and the Sunda trade, 
country, however, at preſent, is chiefly valuable for its trad 
the Chineſe. This degeneracy of the Malayans, who'were fe 
ty an induſtrious | ingenious ple,. is eafily accounted for, 
- tyranny of the Dutch, IG apr? oh is that they ſhould ne 
cover from their preſent ſtate of ignorance and ſlavery. 
The Engliſh carry on a ſmuggling kind of trade in their e 
ſhips, from the — of Coromandel and the bay of Bengal, 
| Jacea. This commerce is connived at by the Dutch governg 
council among them, who little regard the orders of their fu 
provided they can enrich themſelves. 92 
- Cambodia, or Camboja, is a country little known to the E 
ans: but according to the beſt information, its greateſt lengrian 
North to South, is about 520 Engliſh miles z and its greatelt h 
from Welt to Eaſt, about 398 miles. I his kingdom has a i 
Tiver running through it, the banks of which are the only tia 
parts of the nation, on account of its ſultry air, and the peſt 
gnats, ſerpents, and other animals bred in the woods. It 
commodities, trade, animals, and products by fea and lang 
much the ſame with the other kingdoms of this vaſt Peninſula, | 
betel, a creeping plant of a particular flavour, and, as they fa 
excellent remedy tor all thoſe diſeaſes that are common to the 
bitants of the Eat-Indies, is the higheſt luxury of the Camboi 
from the king to the peaſant, but is very unpalatable and cul 
able to the Europeaus. The fame barbarous magnificence, « 
4 tiſm of their king, and ignorance of the paople prevail he 
throughout the reſt of the Peninſula, "7 n 
Between Cambodia and Cochin- China lyes the little kings 
Chiampa, the inhabitants of which trade with the Chinete, and 
therefore to be ſome whiat more civilized than their neighbours: 


Cockia-China, or the Welters China, is fituated under the 


\ * 
- 


# P 4 « " 


TN DIALO D rar Gancrs.” 250 


but it is much leſs leſs extenſive in its breadth 4 Eaſt to 
Laos, Cambodia, and Chiampa, as well as ſome other ſmall- 
loms, are faid to be tributary to Cochin-China. The man- 
id religion. of the people ſeem to be originally Chineſe, and 


nd his kingdom enjoys all the advantages of commerce that 
nd in other parts of the Eaſt · Indies; but at the ſame time 


head to the Chineſe emperor, It is reaſonable to ſuppoſe, that 
LG rich countries were peopled from China, or at leaſt that 
ud, ſome time or other, been governed by one head, till 


lit out, reſerving to itfelf a kind of feudal ſuperiority over 


Fl 5 ö 8 ES 
government of Tonquin is particular. The Tonquineſe had 
4 from the Chineſe, which was attended by a civil war. A 
miſe at laſt took place between the chief of the revolt and 
reſentative of the ancient kings, by which the former was to 
i the executive powers of the government, under the Chouahz 
at the Bua, or real king, ſhould retain the royal titles, and 
mitted ſome inconſiderable civil prerogatives within his palace, 
which neither he, nor any of his family can ſtir without the 
fon of the chouah. The chouah reſides generally in the capi- 
chao, which is ſituated utar the centre of the kingdom. The 
palace is a vaſt f{rufure, and has a fine arſenal. The Engliſh. 
very flouriſhing houſe on the North fide of their city, conve- 
fitted up with Rore-houſes and office-houſes, a noble dining - 
and handſome apartments for the merchants, factors, and of- 
of the company. | 


5 = CS r r Tx 


ſize, and even of white or party-coloured elephants, convey 
Wy thoſe credulous people a pre-eminence of rank and royalty, 

us ſometimes occaſioned bloody wars. After all, it muſt be 
nledged, that however dark the accounts we have of thoſe king- 
(may be, yet there is ſufficient evidences to prove that they are 
aſely rich in all the treaſures of nature; but that thoſe advan- 
bare attended with many natural calamities, ſuch as floods, vol- 
earthquakes, tempeſts, and above all, rapacious and poiſon- 
wmals, which render the poſſeſſion of life, even for an hour, 
ous and uncertain. X | 


INDIA 


ad extends, according to ſome authors, about inn 


it much given to trade. Their king is {aid to be immenſely - 


old that this mighty prince, as well as the king of Tonquin, - 


ther empire became ſo large, that it might be convenient to 


poſſeſſion of rubies, and other precious ſtones of an extraor: 


_ _ — 
3 — 
— 


— —— 


— EEE 1— — — 


INDIA within W nb e or the aße of the 6 
| | Moc. 


* 


S1rvarrON | AND Exraur; [antudjng the Peninſals Welt 
| | 2 | 


„ Length 2000? benden C and 40 North latitude. 
955 2 - Breadth | 560 f be . * 965 and 92 Eaſt longitude, 


| Boundaries. T HI 8 empire is bounded by Uſbec Tarta 
Tibet, on the North ; by Tibet and the 
Bengal, on the Eaſt ; by the Indian Ocean, on the South; 
fame and Perſia, on the Weſt, "The main bern —_ the 
Empire, or Indoſtan properly ſo called. | 


Grand diviſions: Provinces. "Chiief towns, 
ik Bengal Proper ] [ Calcutta, Engliſl 
BE _ | Hugley, Eng. & 


7 a | | Dacca, Eng. & 
The north-eaſt divi- | .. * a, Eng. 
ow of India, con- | » | Malda, Eng. & 


ERS . . EE Tim z 


= provin- 19 5 Chandenagore, | 
22 Bengal, on | } 18 ; 
| \ f aſlumbazer 
5 — mouths of the Naugracut — | Naugracut mo 
© 


Ganges, and thoſe - Jeſuar 


of the mountains of Pana p.m * 2 
* | Necbal Neebal Y. 
| Gore — 4 Gore | b; t] 
| | x . [ Rotas — Rotas in a1 
; | Soret—— Jaganel 
a The north-weſt divi- Tata, or Sinda Lata 


4 
\ 
Jaſſelmere — = {| Jaſſelmere 


ſion on the frontiers | 
| 5 Bucknor — Bucknor 
of Pra, ndonthe} Matan f 
Haican 145 
Cabul — Cabul 


Berar Berar 
5 Chitor Chitor 
The middle diviſion J Ratipor — Ratipor 
Narvar —— Narvar 
Gualeor — Gualeor 
Agra — Agra 


8 — 80 — — . w owes Cote EIS ro OB ab tas 3, 


1 
{ Candiſh == = Medipour 


. o A = 1 1 * 1 - 
" * 1 


9 5 | 
INDIA wrrain Tar Gancrs. 


eſt 


ind Seaſons] The winds in this climate generally blow for 
aths from the South, and fix from the North, April, May, 
je beginning of June, are exceſſively hot, but refreſhed by ſea 


nd let them fall in dry ſhowers, are exceſſively diſagreeable. 
bigliſh, and conſequently the Europeans in general, who ar- 


v, in their different appearances : but when properly treated, 


kealthy, | 


wains.] The moſt remarkable mountains are thoſe of Cauca- 
d Naugracut, which divide India from Perſia, Uſbec Tartary, 


jreople more warlike than the Gentoos. As to the mountains 
ate, which run almoſt the whole length of India from North 
th, they are ſo high that they ſtop the Weſtern monſoon, the 


i Coromandel. 


] Theſe ors the Indus and the Ganges, both of them known 
ncients, ' and held in the higheſt eſteem, and even veneration, 
modern inhabitants. Beſides thoſe rivers, many others wa» 
Narr. 

Ben, and Caper. ] Theſe are the Indian ocean; the bay of 


che gulph of Cambaya; the ſtraits of Ramanakoel; cape 
am and Diu, | 


\ , ͤ lk. x © 7 | 


Witants,] The Fakirs are a kind of Mahometan mendicants or 
; who travel about practiſing the . greateſt auſterities, but 
«them are impoſtors. Their number is ſaid to be 800,000, 
ir {et of mendicants are the Joghis, who are idolaters, and 
oled to be twelve millions in number, but all of them vaga- 
and lazy impoſtors, who live by amuſing the credulous Gen- 
A fooliſh fictions. The Banians, who are ſo called from their 
umocence of life, ſerve as brokers, and profeſs the Gentoo 
or ſome what like it. | : 
 Ferſees, or Parſes, of Indoſtan, are originally the Gaurs, 
din Perſia, but are a moſt induſtrious people, particularly 
Miz, and architecture of every kind. They pretend to be 
(of the workyof Zoroalter, whom they call by various names, 
4 A and 


Delly | — / | | Dztur, E. lon. 79. 
Ws 1 FE, , "ves 6 
e Or | Or 8 
zadle 1 Hendowns 3 Hendowns 
3 Caſſimere— Callimere 
 _ | Jengapour — Laer 
Aſmer, or Bando] ( Aſmer 


s: and in ſome dry ſeaſons, the hurricanes, which tear up the 


t Indoſtan, are commonly ſeized with ſome illnefs, ſuch as flux 
y if the patients are abſtemioũs, they recover, and afterwards. 


et, and are inhabited by Marattas, Afghans or Patans, and 


kyinning ſooner on the Malabar coaſt than they do on the 


q i ; q P | 
„ INDIAN Gaxncxy) 
and which ſome Europeans think contain many particular 
would throw lights upon the ancient hill 4 4 ſacred and 
pPhane · This opinion is countenanced by the few Parcels of 
. N ks that have been publiſhed ; but ſome are of opinion, th 
whole is a modern impoſtute, founded upon facred, traditiong 

.  profaue hiſtories and religionns. 
The nobility and people of rank delight in hunting with th 
as well as the gun, and often train the leopards to the {po 
the field, They affe& ſhady walks and cool fountains, like 
people in hot countries. They are ſond of tumblers, mountel 
and jugglers z of barbarous muſic, both in wind and firing i 
ments, and play at cards in their private parties Their. 1 
make no. appearance, and. thoſe of the commonality. are po 
mean, and generally thatched, which renders them ſubiect . 
but the manufacturers chuſe to work in the open air; and the Wi 
of houſes belonging to principal perſons are commonly neat, 
modious, and-pleafant, nay many of them magnificent. 


Commerce of indeſtan.] The Mahometan merchants. here g 

a trade that has not been deſcribed, I mean that with Mecca, 
rabia, from the Weſtern parts of this empire, up the Red Sea. 
trade is carried on in a particular ſpecies of veſſels called junk 
largeſt of which, we are told, beſides the cargoes, will carry 
ometan pilgrims to viſit the tomb of. their prophet, At 
they meet with Abyflinian, Egyptian, and other traders, to 
they diſpoſe of their cargoes ſor gold and ſilver ; ſo that a 
tan junk returning from this voyage is oſten worth 200, 0 


l | . " me 2 r 

Provinces, Cities, and other buildings, public and private«} 
-are pretty uncertain, eſpecially ſince the late revolutions 
Guxarat is a maritime province on the gulph of Cambay 
one of the fineſt> in India, but inhabited by a Hherce rapacio 
-  , ple. It is faid to contain 35 cities, Amed-Abed is the cap 
the province, where there is an Engliſh factory, and is 6 
wealth, to vie with the richeſt towns in Europe. Abont 43 
Jeagues diſtant lies Surat, where the Engliſh) have a flouriſhit 
tory. | 
The province of Agra is the largeſt in all Indoſtan, contain 
large towns, and 340 villages. ' Agra is the greateſt city, 
caſtle the largeſt fortification in all the Tadies. The Datch 

factory there, bot the Engliſh have none. h 8 
The city of Delhi, which is the capital of that province, 
wiſe. the capital of Indoſtan. It is deſcribed. as being ft 
and containing the imperial palace, which is adorned With t 
magnificence of the Eaſt, Its ſtables formerly contained 
horſes, brought from Arabia, Perka, and Tartary und 
phants. When the forage is burnt up by the heats of the 
as is often the caſe, theſe horſes are ſaid to be fed in dhe n 
with bread, butter, and ſugar, and in the evening with 
properly prepared. | „ Hon 
Tatto, the capital of Sinda, is a large city 2 and it is WK 


" 
4 


* . 2 n * CODE 
- 


A — 


INDTA NIN Tt Ge 365 
which happened in 1699, carried off above 80, ooo of its ma · | 
wrers in filk and cotton. It is ſtill famous for the manufacture _— 
auins, Which are à Kind of eanopied couches, on which the W's 

ben all over Indta, Europeans as well as flatives, repoſe when 
pptar abroad They ure carried by four wen, who will trot 1 
wortung and ewewing, 40 miles a day, ten being afoally = 1 
| who carry the palaquin by turns, four ut a time. Thou | 

in is dear at Brſt coſt, yet the porters may be hired for nine | 
phillings a month euch, out of which they maintain themſelves. 

plus, at Tatta, is about a tile broad, and famous for its fins 


oh the province of Maltan is not very fruiſul, yet it yields 

t iron and canes; and the inhabitants, by their fittration, 

wbled to deal with the Perfians and Tartars yearly Yor about 

horſes. The province of Caflimers; being ſurronnded' with 

wins, is difficult of acceſs, but when entered, uu appears to be 

wadiſe of the Indies. It is ſaid to contain” i60,000 villages, td 

| with cattle and game, without any beaſts of prey. The 

ul (Caflimere) ſtands by a large lake 3 and both ſexes, the wos - 

thecially, are almoſt as fair as the Europeans, and are faid to 

ity, dexterous, and ingenious. 1 

province and city 6f Labor formerly made a great figure in 
ii hiſtory, and is ſtill one of the largeſt and fineſt provinces 
Indies, producing the beſt ſugars Ly any in Indoftan,  Trs 

vas once about nine miles long, but is now much decayed. 

how little of the provinces of Ayud, Varad, Bekar, and Hal- | 
that is not in common with the other provinces of Indoſtan, = 

king that they are inhabited by a hardy race of men, who ſeem | 
to have been conquered, and though they ſubmir to the mo- 

ue in an eaſy, independent ſtate. In ſome of thoſe provinces, 

af the European fruits, plants, and flowers, thrive as in their 

foil, R * 

2a), of all the Indian provinces, is perhaps the moſt intereſt- 

$12 Engliſh reader. It is eſteemed to be the ſtorehouſe of the 

ladies. Its ſertility exceeds that of Egypt after being over - 

by the Nile; and the produce of its foil conſiſts of rice, ſu· 

ats, corn, ſeſamum, ſmall mulberry, and other trees, Its 

s, ſilks, ſalt - petre, lakka, opium, wax, and civet, go all 

the world; and proviſions here are in vaſt plenty, and incre- 

cheap, eſpecially pullets, ducks, and geeſe - The country is 8 

fed by canals cut out of the Ganges for the benefit of com- 

; and extends near yoo leagues on both ſides the Ganges, be- 

W of citics, towns, villages, and caſties. 6 

bengal, the worſhip of the Gentoos is practiſed in its greateſt 

and their ſacred river (Ganges) is in a manner lined with 

Mynicent pagods or 'temples. The women, notwithfand- * 

er religion, are ſaid by ſome to be laſcivious and enticing. 

principal Engliſh factory in Bengal is at Calcutta, and is 

Fort William; it is ſituated on the river Hughly, the moſt | 

fy branch of the Ganges. The Fort itſelf is ſaid to be irre- = 
nd untenable againſt diſciplined troops; but the ſervants of | y 

Wpi2y have provided themſelves with an excellent houſe, and 

4 A 2 . mot 


— — 


- 


=— 


= . 7 os - . | 
556 INDIA witain Trax Cancers 
town itſelf may be now ſaid to be in poſſeſſian of the com 
Engliſh civil government, by a mayor and alderman, has ho 
troduced into it. It does not, however, ſeem te give gene 
faction, on account 2 the n which the company 
ways over the magiſtrates, and many complaints 
en have lately reached England. has 8 
In 1756, The Indian nabob, or viceroy, quarrelled with 6 
pany; and inveſted Calcutta with a large body of black 
vernor, and ſome of the principal ons of the place, 
themſelves, with their chief s, on board the ſhips in the 
they who remained, for ſome hours bravely defended the plac 
their amunition being expended, they ſurrendered upon terms 
ſoubah, a capricious unfeeling tyrant, inſtead of obſerving thy 
tulation, forced Mr Holwell, the governor's chief ſervatit, a 
Britiſh ſubjects, into a little, but ſecure priſon, called the Black 
place about 18 feet ſquare, and ſhut up from almoſt allcommuni 
of free air. Their miſeries during the night were inexpreſſbi 
before morning no more than 23 were found alive, the reſt dy 
ſuffocation, which was generally attended with a horrible phren 
mong thoſe ſaved were Mr Holwell himſelf, who has written 
affecting account of the cataſtrophe. The inſenſible tyrant-ret 
to his capital, after plundering the place, imagining be had 
the Engliſh out of his dominious ; but the ſeaſonable arrival 
miral Watſon, and colonel (afterwards lord) Clive, put then 
more, with ſome difficulty, in poſſeſſion of the place; and th 
was concluded by the glorious battle of Plaſſey, gained by the 
nel, and the death of the tyrant Suraja Dowla, in whoſe 
Mhir Jaffier was advanced to the ſoubahſhip. | 
The capital of Bengal, where the nabob keeps his court, is 
or Makſudabad ; and Bannares, lying in the ſame province, 
Gentoo univerſity, and celebrated for its ſanctity. 
Chandenagore, is the principal place poſſeſſed by the Fre 
Bengal; it lies higher up the river than Calcutta. But i 
ſtrongly fortified, and furniſhed with a garriſon of 500 Eurof 
and 1200 Indians, and defended by 123 pieces of canon, and 
mortars, it was taken in the late war by the Engliſh adaurals N 
and Pocock, and colonel Clive. Hugley, which lyes 30 mi 
the North of Calcutta, upon the Ganges, is a place of prod 
trade for the richeſt of all Indian commodities. The Dutel 
here a well fortified factory. The ſearch for diamonds is carri 
by about 10, ooo people from Saumelpour, which lyes 30 leag 
the North of Rugley, for about 50 miles farther, Dakka is 
be the largeſt city of Bengal, and the tide comes up to its wall 
contains an Engliſh and a Dutch factory. The other chief 
are Caſſumbazer, Chinchura, Barnagur, and Maldo ; belides3 
ber of other places of leſs note, but all of them rich in the! 
manufactures. FR 9 
We know little concerning the province of Malva, which 
the Weſt of Bengal, but that it is as fertile as the other prov 
and that its chief city is Ratiſpor. The province of Kandn 
cludes that of Berar and part of Orixa, and its capital is Bra 


, , 


INDIA NTA Tar, Ganer% goof 
it is of prodigious extent, and carries on à vaſt trade in 
, callicoes, embroidered tus. | 5 
above are the provinces belonging to the Mogul's empire to 
th of what is properly called the Peninſula within the Gan- 
1 7 lye to the Southward fall into the deſcription of 


F F 


| | | FI 
] All we know for certain is, that Tamerlane made a deep, 
don upon this country, and that the preſent emperor pretends - 
pin his right. The hiſtory of his immediate deſcendents. has, 

zriouſly repreſented, but all agree in the main that they were 
ficent and defpotic princes, that they committed their provin- 
rapacious governars, or to their - own ſons, by which their 
x was often miſerably torn in pieces. At length, towards the 
þ of the laſt century, the famous Aurengzebe, in the year 1667, 
the youngeſt among many ſons of the reigning emperor, af- 
eating or murdering all his brethren, mounted the throne of, 
an, and may be conſidered as the real founder and legiſlature 
empire, He was a great and a politic prince, and the firſt 
atended his dominion, though it was little better than nomi- 


en wer the Peninſula within the Ganges, which is at preſent io 
ret hown to the Engliſh: He lived ſo late as the year 19707, and 
d ud that ſome of his great officers of ſtate were alive in the year 


| Aurengzebe ſeems to have left too much power to the go- 
n of his diſtant Tr and to have been at no pains in 


E ning the effects of that dreadful deſpotiſm, which, while in 
the ud, preſerved the tranquility of his empire, but when it de- 
oſe xd to his weak indolent ſucceſſors, occaſioned its overthrow. 


1713, four of his grandſons diſputed the empire, which, after 
dy ſtruggle, fell to the eldeſt, Mauzo'din, who took the name 
ſandar Shah, Thig prince was a flave to his pleaſures, and 
prerned by his miſtreſs ſo abſolutely, that his great omrahs 
ed againſt him, and raiſed to the throne one of his nephews, 


tl kuk off his uncle's head. The new emperor, whoſe name was 
urof air, was governed, and at laſt enſlaved by two brothers of 
no nc of Seyd, who abuſed his power fo groſsly, that being a+ 
s N W puniſh them publicly, he ordered them both to be privately 
m ted. They diſcovered his intention, and dethroned the em- 
rod in whoſe place they raiſed a grandſon of Aurengzebe, by his 


ter, a youth of ſeventeen years of age, after impriſoning and 
pg Furrukhſir. The young emperor proved diſagreeable to 
ers, and being ſoon poiſoned, they raiſed to the throne his 
rother, who took the title of Shah Jehan. The rajahs of In- 


nal. whoſe anceſtors had entered into ſtipulations, or what may 
%% conventa, when they admitted the Mogul ſamily, took 
es 4 tid againſt the two brothers, but the latter were victorious, 
be! Wah Jehan was put in tranquil poſſeſſion of the empire, but 


1719. He was ſucceeded by another prince of the Mogul 
"to took the name of Mahommeg Shah, and entered into pri- 
raſures with his great rajahs for deſtroying the Seyds, who 
red enemies to Nizam al Muluck, one of Aurengzebe's fa - 
generals, Nizam, it is ſaid, was privately encouraged I 


4 


of " INDIGO wrrn if FHP OAKGTR. 

che emperor to declare bimſelf againſt the brothers, ado vw 

himſelf foubah of Decan, - which bHongedto it of the Beyds 

___ * wasallinaed'by the emperor's order, We anne dite as 

ds Deni to deſtroy the other brother; but e ne Woner wha 
Wat bac happened, than he +proclaimed the uftüum Arad 

| her of the Mogul princes, emperor. A battle enſued vp 

which the emperor was victorious, and is ſaid to have uſed kh; 

= with great moderation, for he. remittedd Ibrahitn to the 

r Whetice be had been taken; and Seyd, being likeviſes f 

er, was condemned to/perpetuaFconfinement, but the"emnjperoi 

poſſeſſon of his vaſt riches: -Seyd did not hong Tur vive his & 

ment; and upon his death, the emperor abandoned himelf 

=. ame edburſe of pleaſures that had been ſo fatal tu his predet 

| As to Nizam, he became now the great inperiat” general; ant 

ode ſten employed againſt the Marateas; whom he Jefeated; whe 

had almoſt made themſelves maſters of Agra and Delli. H 

confirmed in his ſeubahſhip, and was confidered as the firſt 

in the empire. Authors, however, are divided” as to his'm 

for inviting Nader Shah, otherwiſe Kouli Ran the Pethai 

narch, to invade Indoſtan. It is thought that he had intelſiget 

A ſtrong party formed againft him at court ; bit the truth pe 

| is, that Nizam did not think that Nadir Shah could have fi 

and at firſt” wanted to make himſelf uſefal by oppoſing him. 

-_. fueceſs of Nadir Shah is well known, and the immenſe t 

which he carried from Indoſtan in 1739. Bess rhole tres 

he obliged the Mogul to ſurrender to him all the lands to thei 

of the rivers Attock and Synd, comprehending the provinces 0 

ſhor, Kabul, and Ganga, with many other rich and populous 

 Cipalities, the whole of 1 em almoſt equal in value to the co 
Perſia itſelf. r es abs 

This invaſion coſt the Gentovs 200,000 lives. Hs to the ff 

made by Nadir Shah, ſome accounts, and thoſe too Rrongly a 

ticated, make it amount to the incredible ſum of two hunde 

. thirty-one millions ſterling, as mentioned by the London 0 

rf of thoſe times. The moſt moderate ſay, that Nadir's own i 

1 mounted to conſiderably above ſeventy millions. Be that a8 

the invaſion. of Nadir Shah may be confidered as patting a1 

to the greatneſs of the Mogul empire in the houſe of Tam 

The hiſtory of it, ſince that time, is leſs known than that of T 

lane itſelf. According to the beſt accounts, upon the retreat 

< dir Shah, who left the emperor in poſſeſſion of his dignity, 11 

' - fans invaded his dominions ; and fo treacherons were the emp 

generals and miniſtry, that none of them would head wn ar 

gainſt them, till the emperor's ſon, a youth of eighteen ye 

age, bravely undertook the command, puniſhed the conſpirac 

had been formed againſt his father, and completely deſeated 
vaders. During this campaign, the emperor Was rang! 

vizier : but by a courſe of well acted diſſimulation, the-youn 

'» peror, who was called Amet Shah, found means to put the 

tators to death, but ſoon aſter was driven from his throne by 4 

invaſion of the Patans and Marattas: Some pretend that oe 

Geer was firſt proclaimed emperor; and then murdered by int 


ws 


& 


. 


* — 
N 


r PENINSPL A Nin ue 55 
$0 raiſed another prince to the throne. Whether rhis Auam 
the ſome with Atnet Shah is uncertain, as are the interne dlate- 
jons that followed..., 9 the im 7 . of Indo- 


led in Shah Zadah, , who is univerſally acknowledged to be 


det ei ir Taierlane race ; but bis. wef is feeble, and 
any protection of the Engliſh, wholg intereſt it is to 
* En. . s bi authority is the beſt legal guarantee. 

* * maden o eat Mogul (fo called from being 


| (rom Lamerlan ngul or Mogul Tattar) 6n his ad- 
vent to the KI umed ſome grand title; as, The conquer- 


7 world, the NY the throne, cc. Webs. A e 


— — V —ů — —— — .-——— H . — — 
11 — 
> - 


ſi: PENINSULA wiTaix ths Gancrs, 


diviſions. . Provinces, Chief towns 


that Madura — 1 -C Madura 

get Tanjour— | | Tanjour _ 

f pe Bree i / -  ] | Tranquebar, Danes 

e fi Eaſt-fide of 2 — Dutch 

im. nagar, or Car- | | Biſna h 

+ t — — 1 — Dutch * 

tre [ et — David, Engliſh 

the | . ndicherry, 

s of N K | — 3 

lous bath eaſt | | 1 | Coblon 

India, * | 7 Sadrafapatan, Dutch 

on the | - | | St Thomas, Portugueſe. -/ 

e pl gal, Fort 8t George, or 2 

ya called } > T E. lon. 80-32: N. lat. 35+ 

dre ltof Co- II. Engliſh. 5 a 

n G w | q Pellicate, Dutch | * 

n ſh | Goleonda woe | | Goleonda 

as 1 | I | Gani, or Coulor, blend 

fol . 4 6 T7” mines | - 

am | {| ' | Muſſalapatan, Engliſh and 

f T Daten 

eat | } | | Vizacapatan, Engliſh 

„ 1 8 5 Bimlipatan, Dutch 

oy : Orixa —— | | Orixa 

has « II Ballafore, Engliſh 

n ye == 2 

1 Weſt ſide: of Beſ- ] ¶ Tegapatan, Dutch 

ed nagar, or Car- | Angengo, liſh 

fed Beſt | nate —— | | Cochin, Dutch k 

Songs India, | t | Callicut, Eng. Fr. Port. 

ke J called ; > 1 Tillicherry, Engliſh. 

by SF of Ma- ; i / | Canannore, ch 7 

Ine 4 | | Monguelore, Dutch and. 

I the ö I Baſſilore Portugueſe 
| | | Raalgonda, diamond mines. 


wk at : R "I Lag 
„ W | 7 
"560 Tix PENINSULA wrrar% tat Gans i 


I |] Decany or Viſia | | Cawar, Engliſh, , 

8 _ | pour, — 48 eſe 4 

7 141 | Rajapore, French , 

Bos | | | | 1 — E aa 

; | | £48; ndee, | 

2 RITES FL 8 + 

39 5 f fo | 1 | Bombay, ifle and town 1 

ol b ch, 18-30, N. tat. | 

ſonth weft coat 188 

of India, con- 4 Baſſaim, 8 | a 

tinued. | Salſette ue 

© © © _ ] Cambaya, orGu- | | Damon, Portugueſe . 

Ira I Surat E. Ion. 72-25, 

| | 21-10 | 1 

: 15 2 95 Swalley | 

| / IE] | | | Baiak, Engliſh and ) 4 

. | II Amed 10 

1 | . „ ee | 
| EINE | | ) UDiew Portugueſe, 


the end of June, a South-Weſt wind begins to blow from ti 
on the coaſt of Malabar, which, with continual rains, la 
months, during which time all is ſerene upon the coalt'of Cn 
del (the Weſtern and Eaſtern coaſts being ſo denominated.) 
wards the end of October, the rainy ſeaſon, and the chan 
monſoon begins on the Coromandel coaſt, which being deli 
good harbours, renders it extremely dangerous for ſhips to 
there, during that time, and to this is owing the periodical rg 
| of the Engliſh ſhipping to Bombay, upon the Malabar cat, 
C air is naturally hot in this Peninſula, but is refreſhed by b 
the wind altering every twelve Hours; that is, from midi, 
noon it blows off the land, when it is intollerably hot, and d 
the other twelve hours from the ſea, which laſt proves a | 
frethment to the inhabitants of the coaſt. The produce of U 
is the ſame with that of the other part of the Eaſt Indies, II 
may be ſaid of their quadrupeds, fiſh, fowl, and noxious cre: 
and inſects. | 11 ** 


Inhabitants.) The inhabitants of this part are more black in 
plexion, than thoſe of the other Peninſula of India, though 
nearer to the equator, which makes ſome ſuſpect them to be H 
ſcendents of an ancient colony from Ethiopia. The green 
of them have but a faint notion at preſent, of any allegiance 
owe to the emperor of Indoſtan, whoſe tribute from then has Yen 
ever ſince the invaſion of Shah Nadir, intercepted by their 
and nabobs, who now exerciſe an independent powef in the gl... 
ment, though even Suraja Dowla was glad to receive a deputy. 


Turn PENINSULA Last rub Guse Ot 
de now reigning,” or his father ; but beſides theſe 


emperor, 

bbs, and other imperial. viceroys, mauy eſtates in this Peninſula 
to rajahs or lords, who are the deſcendents of their old princes, 

ok upon themſelves as being independent on the mogul, and 


wincer, Cities, and other buildings, public and private.]} This 
la is rather to be divided into great governments, or ſoubah- 
than into provinces... One ſoubah oſten engroſſes ſeveral pro- 

and fixes the ſeat of his: government, according to his own 
nency. 9 | 4% 337 6: ” re 4. 
ura begins at Cape Comorin, the Southermoſt point of the 
la. It is about the bigneſs of the kingdom of Portugal, and 
jto be governed by a ſovereign king, Who has under him 70 
ry princes, each of them independent in his own dominions, 
wing him a tax. The chief value of this kingdom ſeems to 
ll a pearl fiſhery upon its coaſt. Tanjour is a little kingdom, 
ts the Eaſt of Madura. The ſoil is fertile, and its prince was 
but it was lately taken by the "Engliſh Eaſt India company's 
Within it lyes the Daniſh Eaſt India ſettlement of 'Tran- 
, and the Dutch fortreſs of Nagapatan, and the capital city 


jour, wh 


Wt: Carnatic, as it is now called, is well knoten to the Engliſh, 
wounded on the Eaſt by tlie bay of Bengal, on the North by 
met Chriſtina, which divides it trom Golkonda : on the Weſt 
pur, or Viſiapur, and, on the South, by the kingdoms of 
rand Tanjour ; being in length, from South to North, about 
Ales, and 276 in breadthy from Eaſt to Weſt. The capital of 
matic is Biſnagar, and the country in general is eſteemed 
tal, fertile, and populons. Within this country, upon the 
ande] coaſt, lyes fort St David's, belonging to the Engliſh, 
diſtrict round it. The fort is ſtrong, and of great import- 
our trade. Five leagues to the North, lyes Pondicherry, 
lie emporium of the French in the Eaſt Indies, but now de- 
id by the Engliſh, who, in the courſe of the late war, took 
ud moſt of their other ſettlements in the Mogul empire; but 
de were reſtored at the peace of 1763, with this limitation, 
le French ſhould erect no fortifications, or keep troops in any 

the dominiotis of the: ſoubah of Bengal. {i 
t dt George, better known by the name of Madraſs, is the. 
the Engliſm Eaſt India company's dominions in the Eaſt 
* and is diſtant Eaſtward from London, about 4800 miles. 
Complaints have been made of the ſituation of this fort. No 
me been ſpared by the company, in rendefing it impregnable 
force that can be brought againſt it by thE natives. It pro- 
"0 towns, called from the complexions of their ſeveral inhabi- 
the White and the Black. The White Town is fortified, and 
Man Engliſh corporation of a mayor and alderman. Nothing 
den omitted to mend the natural. badneſs of its ſituation, 
b ſeems originally to be owing to the neighbourhood of the dia- 
Mines, which are but a week's journey diſtant. Thoſe mities 
Ker the tuition of a mogul officer, who lets them out by ad- 
2» L meaſure menty 


* 


. , | ' 
36: Tur PENINSULA wrraiw rut Caxcrt 
meaſurement, and encloſing the contents by palliſadoes all 


monds above a certain weight belong to the emperor, © The 4 
belonging to Madraſs, is of little value for its product, and 
import its own proviſions, 80,000 inhabitants of various 2; 
are ſaid to be dependent upon Madraſs; but its ſafety eonſfills 
ſaperiority of the Engliſh by ſea. It carries on a conſiderable 
with China, Perſia, and Mocha... 
Fe reader needs not be informed of the immenſe fortaines 
red by the Kngliſh, upon this coaſt, within theſe a0 yeats. I. 
vernor of Madraſs has a council to aſſiſt him, and When be g 
broad, appears in vaſt fplendor. The differences that now'r 
. mong the directors and proprictors of the companꝝ in Roll 
prevent my ſaying any thing concerning the poliee of this g 
ment. The company has received all the encouragementand 
ance the Engliſh parliament can give them, even to the 
of martiai law into their poſſeſſions. There ſeems, however 
ſome fundamental errors in their conſtitution, - The: diredtors 
der the viches acquired by their governors and other r 
being plundered from the company, and of late they have kl 
ſuperintendents to controul their governors and overgrown ſe 
but with what ſucceſy time muſt demonſtrate, As this is a ful 
the greateſt importance, that ever perhaps occurred in the p 
phy of a commercial. country, the reader wilk indulge mein 
two reflections, as I any not to reſume the ſubject. 

The Engliſh Eaſt. India company, through the diſtractiong 
Mogul empire, the ſupport of our government, and the: und 
but fortunate ſucceſſes of their military officers, have geg 
"amazing a property in this Peninſula, and in Indoſtan, that Wt 
perior to the revenues of many crowned heads, and. oe of the 
ſervants pretend, that when all their expences are paid, wel 
revenue amounts to near two millions ſterling, ont of wan 
are to pay. 400,000 |. annually, to the government, wines 
. fuffered to enjoy their revenues. How that revenue is colles 

from whence it ariſes, is beſt known to the companys part 
ever has been granted in landed-property, and part of ts 
on mortgages, for diſcharging their expences in ſupporung 
tereſts of their friends, the. emperor, and the reſpective lout 

nabobs they have aſſiſted. 

Be that as it may, this company exerciſes at preſent mas 
appropriated to ſovereignty, ſuch as thoſe of- holding forts 

money, and the like, "Thoſe powers are undoubtedly inco 
. with the principles of a commercial limited company, and 
the dignity of the Engiiſh government, to ſend out an officer 
own, (as they have done in the perſon of Sir John Lindſay) 
- ſuch meaſures with the Eaſtern princes and potentates, 4 ® 
der the acquiſitions of the company permanent and national. 
Pellicate, lying to the North of Madraſs, belongs the 
We know little of the kingdom and capital of Ikkari. The 
ted. Heyder Ally, with whom the company has lately made 
is ſaid to be a native of the kiagdom of Meſſur, which l. 
. South-Weſt of the Carnatic ; and the Chriſtians of the 
Thomas, live at the foot of the mountains Gatti, that ſepar 


Tus PENINSULA within rh& CanGrs. 563 


m Malabar. I have already mentioned the kingdom of Gol- 
, which beſides its diamonds, is famous for the cheapneſs of 
wrifions, and for making white wine of grapes that are ripe in 
. Golkonda'is ſaid to be ſuhject to à prince, who, though 
1 to the Mogul, is immenſely rich, and can raiſe 100,000 
The capital of his dominions is called Bagnagar, but the 
bm takes its name from the city of Golkoada Eaſt-· South - 
id Golkonda, hes: Maſulipatan, where the Engliſh and Dutch 
atovies. The Engliſh have alfo ſactories at Ganjam, and Vi- 
tan, on this coaſt, and the Dutch at Narſipore. The pro- 
zol Orixa, from whence the -Englith company draw great · part 
ir revenues, lyes to the North of; Golkonda, extending in length 
fat to Weſt, about 5350 miles, and in brgadth about 240. It 
gerned lik wiſe by a tributary. prince. In this province ſtands 
klatry temple of Jagaryunt, which they ſay is attended by 5300 
The idol is an irregular pyramidal black ſtone, of about 
500 weight, with two rich diamonds near the. top, to repreſent 
ud the noſe and mouth painted with vermilian. 7. 
country of Dekan comprehends ſeveral large provinces,. and 
tiogdoms, particularly thoſe of Baglana, Balagate, Telenga, 
lhe kingdom of Viſiapur. The truth is, the names, dependen- 
ud governments of thaſe provinces, are extremely unſettled ; 
turing been reduced by Aurengzebe, or his father, and ſubject 
bolt annual revolutions and alterations. Modern geographers 
x agreed upon their ſituation and extent, but we are told, that 
riccipal towns are Aurengabad, and Dolt-abad, or Dowlet- 
and that the latter is the | place in all Indoſtan. Near 
x the famous pagods of | Elera, in a plain about two rogues 
The tombs, chapels, temples, pillars, and many thoutand 
that ſurround it, are ſaid to be cut out of the natural rock, 
blurpaſs all the other efferts of human art. Telenga lyes on 
uſt of Golkonda, and its capital Beder, contains a garriſon f 
nen. The inhabitants of this province, ſpeak a language pe- 
0 themſelves, 
Jana lyes to the Weſt of Telenga, and forms the ſmalleſt pro- 
« the empire z 4ts capital. is Mouler. The Portugueze terri- 
zins here at the port of Daman, 21 leagues South of Surat, 
ends almoſt 20 leagues to the North of Goa. | 
wr is a large kingdom, tributary to the Mogul, but its par- 
extent is uncertain. The Weltern part is called Konkan, 
bs intermingled with the Portugueze poſſeſſions. The king of 
ar is ſaid to have a yearly revenue of fix millions ſterling, and 
ag to the field 150,000 ſoldiers. His capital is of the ſame 
ad his country very fruitful. The principal places on this 
ne, Daman, Baſſaim Trapor or Tarapor, Chawl, Dandi- Ra- 
„ Vabul-Rajupur, Ghiria; and Vingurla. The Portugueze 
l leveral valuable poſſeſſions on this coaſt, and thoſe which 
re on the decline. | 
dag the iflands iying upon the ſame coaſt is that of Bombay, 
ig to the Engliſh Eaſt-India company. Its harbour can 
ily hold 1000 ſhips at anchor. The iſland itſelf is about 
Wes in length, and twenty in circumference, but its ſituation 
4 3 2 | 


$54 Tus PENINSULA WIr, d Client,” 
and harbour are its chief recommendations; being deſtitute 
all the conveniencies of life. The town is about à mile to 
poorly built, and the climate was fatul to Eugliſm confi 
till experience, caution, and temperance, taught chem preſs 
againſt its unwholeſomeneſs. The belt water there is preſe 
inks, which receive it in the rainy ſeaſon. © The fort i 4 
benden le, and well built of ſtone. Many black merchant 
here - This iſſand was part of the portion paid with the is 
Portugal, to Charles II. who gave it to * Eaft- India ec 
and the iſland is'flil} divided into three Roman'catholie pari 
habited by Portugueze, and what are called popiſh Met; 
Canarins, the former being a mixed breed of the natives and 
—. and the other the aborigines of the country.” The 
ave fallen upon methods to render this iſland and town, u 
their diſadvantages, a ſaſe, if not an agreeable reſidence 
reader need ſcarcely be informed, that the governor and co 
Bombay, have lucrative poſts as well as the officers unde 
The troops on the ifland are commanded” by (Engliſh vffic 
the natives, when formed into regular companies, and gif 
are here and all over the Eaſt-Indies, called Seapoys. Th 
birants of the iſland amount to near 60, ooo of different 1 
each of whom enjoys the practice of his religion unmoleſted. 
© Near Bombay are ſeveral other iſlands; one of which, cal 
phanta, contains the moſt inexplicable antiquity, perhaps, 
world. A figure of an elephant of the natural ſize cut co 
fone, preſents itſelf on the landing place, near the botre 
Tibuntain, * An eaſy ſlope then leads to a ſtupendous temple 
out of the ſolid rock, 80 of go feet long, and 40 broad.” 
which is cut flat, is ſupported by regular rows of pillars, al 
feet' high, with capitals, reſembling round cuſhions, as if 
by the weight of the incumbent mountain. At the farther 
three gigantic figures, which have been multiplied by che bi 
of the Portugneze, Beſides the temple, are various imag 
groupes on each hand cut in the ſtone ; one of the latter be 
rude reſemblance of the judgment of Solomon: beſides a'colt 
with a door of regular architeure ; but the whole bears n 


of reſemblance to any of the Gentoo works. 19.5 
The iſland and city of Goa, the capital of the Portuguere 
ments in the Eaſt Indies, lyes about 30 miles South of the Vi 
The iſland is about 27 miles in compats. It has one of the fi 
beſt ſortified ports in the Indies. This was formerly a wolf 
ſettlement, and was ſurpaſſed either in bulk or beauty by tel 
European cities. It is ſaid that the revenues of the Jeſuits uf 

iſland, equalled thoſe of the crown of Portugal. Goa, 2 
the reſt of the Portugueze poſſeſſions on this coaſt, are under 
roy, Who {till keeps up the remains of the ancient ſplendot 
government. The rich Peninſula of Salzete, is dependent « 
Sunda lyes South of the Portugueze territories, and is gore 
a rajah, tributary to the Mogul. The Engliſh factory of Co 
one of the moſt pleaſant and healthful of any upon the! 
coaſt. Kanora lyes about 40 miles to the South of Goa, and 


85 to Calicut. Its ſoil is ſamous ſor producing rice, that 
I» j6> Wi it + 1 8 Es 101 ; Ta, "8. 7 \ 4 


LEES A LAS. EEE SE. 


= 


3 
. 


WU ANU HAY #4 


| ; \ b | . \ J 9 ** * 
7 wrt” ! a, 4 Þ - "> 


— 2 6 + 


TaAYWar oe ; 6248 —  - - * 


=P Laus; 
| Nin of 


we. 5 R - . 4 4 6 — 19 * 2 . = a DN * 
— "I 8 : O . ; *. 2 - C , "P* = 1. 44. 1 0 
44 1 * N " 1 : — 2 . 8 ** . +. 088 9 Take 1 Fr CY * . 
0 * * b 


_ 


4a ? „ 


on 


444.04... 
Warts of Europe, and ſome of the Indies. The Kanorines | 
Wy generally to be governed by a lady, whoſe fon has che title 
nud ber ſubjects are accounted the braveſt and moſt crviliz- 
in chat Peninſula, and remarkably given to commerce. 
n Malabar gives name to the whole South : Weſt coaft of 
Wiaſula, yet it is confined at preſent to the country ſo called, 
the Welt of cape Comorin, and called the Dominions of 
Smorin. The Malabar language, however, is common in the 
we, and the country itſelt is rich and fertile, but peſtered with 
Vaders, whoſe poiſon is incurable. It was formerly a large 
bi of itſelf, I he moſt remarkuble places in Malabar are Can- 
containing a Dutch factory and Fort; Tillicheri, where 
lin have a ſmall ſettlement, keeping a conſtant garriſon of 
Jo ſoldiers. Callicut, where the Englich, French, and Por- 
ae, have ſmall factories, beſides various other diſtinct territo- 
eities. Cape Comorin, which is the Southermoſt part of 
Feninſula, though not above three leagues in extent, is famous 
ing in the ſame garden, the two ſeaſons of the year; the 
being loaded with bloſſoms and fruit on the one fide, while on 
ther fide they are ſtripped of all their leaves. This ſurpriſi 
homenon js owing to the ridge of mountains fo often — . 
traverſe the whole Peninſula from South to North. On the 
lite ſides of the Cape, the winds are conſtantly at variance; 
ww the Weſt on the Weſt fide, and from the Eaſt on the 


be little diſtri& of Cochin within Malabar, are to be found 
@ tiouſands of Jews, who pretend to be of the tribe of Manaſſeh, 
have records engraved on copper plates in Hebrew characters. 
are faid to be ſo poor, that many of them embrace the Gentoo 
pon. The like diſcoveries of the Jews and their records have 
made in China, and other places of Afia, which have occaſton- 


ou ſpeculations among the learned. 


The Empire of CHINA, 


S1iTUVATION AND ErxTExnrT. ' 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 1440 20 and 42 North latitude. 
Breadth Wt verween 158 and 123. Eaſt longitude. 


Boundaries.) TE is bounded by the Chineſe Tartary, on the 
| North; by the ' pacific. ocean, which divides it 
North America, on the Eaft ; by the Chineſian ſea, South: 
| | x1 and 


Di The great diviſion of this empire, is into Gee 


E F . . * 


* | \/ | PS; — 0 6 N Fo * . : : N 52 ; 
Y * „ a N op —- 12 Cc H 1 85 oy wy | 2 
- ” 4 g * 4 . | | * : 
. X SY 
0 . N — = f p ; 4 < | 
and by Tonquin, and the Tartarian countries of Tibet and 1 
on the Wy eſt.” | , 5 . Y £ + \ * * 
0 1 | 1 | 1 + % TY. jp "2 . 8 Ne In IP" 
# ) _— Kain 
* 1 


: 4 4+ + 4 4 M 
< . 


* 


vinces (excluſive of that of Lyau-tong, which is fituate withod 
eat wall, my under the ſame dominion) ; each of which u 
or their largeneſs, fertility, populouſneſs, and opulence, paſs 
many diſtm& kingdom. 2 | 
I be informations concerning China, are'drawn'from the 5 
of Jeſnits, and other religious ſent thither by the pope, but 
miffions have been at an end for above half à century. 80 
thofe fathers were men of penetration and judgment, and had 
opportunities of being informed about a century ago; but even 
accounts are juſtly to be ſuſpected. The name is probably owi 
© a Chineſe word, ſignifying Middle, from a notion the natiy 
that their country lay in the middle of the world. 


Rivers and Mater.] The chief are the Lamont, and the A 
which are the boundary between the Ruſſian and Chineſe Tart 
the Crocceus, or Whambo, or the Yellow river; the Kiam, « 
Blue River, and the Tay. Common water in China is very 
ferent, and is in ſome places boiled to make it fit for uſe. -- 


Bar.] The chief are thoſe of Nanking and Canton. | 


Canals.) The commodiouſneſs and length of their-canals 
credible. The chief of them are lined with hewn ſtone on the 
and they are fo deep, that they carry veſſels, and ſome 
they extend above 1000 miles in length. Thoſe vellels are itt 
for all the conveniencies of life, and it has been thought by 
that in China the water contains as many inhabitants as the 

They are furnilved with ſtone quays, and ſometimes with brich 
an amazing conſtruction. The navigation is flow, and the 
ſometimes drawn by men. No precautions are wanting, that g 
be ſormed by art or perſeverante for the-fafety of the pallenge 
caſe a canal is croſſed by a rapid river, or expoſed to torrents 
the mountains. Thoſe canals, and the variety that is ſeen 
their borders, renders China the moſt dio to the eye of 
country in the world, as well as fertile, in places that are not! 
nature. 


Foreſti.] Such is the induſtry of the Chineſe, that they ary 
encumbered with foreſts or woods, though no country is bette 
ted for producing timber of all kinds, They ſuffer, however, 
to grow but for ornament and uſe, or on the ſides of moun 
from whence the trees, when cut down, can be conveyed i 
es ni; | 


Air, Soil, and Produce ] The air of this etnpire is accord 
the ſituation of the places. Towards the North it is ſharp, u 
middle mild, and in the South hot. The ſoil is either by nam 


art fruitful of every thing that can minilter to the neceſli ies, oy 


VVV 
* „ or luxuries of life... The culture of the cotton, and the 
Ads, from which the: bulk of the inhabitants are cloathed and 

x ingenious, almoſt beyond deſcription. The rare trees, and 
nic productions, either, ornamental or mediciaal, that abound 
ir parts o the world, are to be found in China, and ſome are 
jar to itieſf. Wang f 8 ogni en 
: tallow tree has a ſhort trunk, a ſmooth bark, crooked branch · 
ed leaves, ſhaped like a heart, and is about the height of a com- 
cherry, tree. The: fruit it produces has all the qualities of, our 
s, and when manufactured with oil, ſerve the natives as can» 
bat they ſmeil Rrong, nor is their light clear. Of the other 
peculiar to China, are ſome which yield a kind of flour; ſome 
ke of the nature of pepper The s of ſome are poiſono 
ford the fineſt varniſh in the world. After all chat can be 23 
ale, and many other beamiſul and uſefol trees, the Chineſe, 
ichtanding their induſtry, are fo wedded to their ancient cuſ- 
;, that they are very little, if at. all, meliorated, by cultivation. 
ame may be. ſaid of their richeſt fruits, which, in general, are 
from being ſo delicious as thoſe-of Europe, and indeed of A- 
cz, This is owing to the Chineſe, never practiſing grafting, 
pnoculation of trees, and knowing nothing of experimental gar- 


ing. : © „ | 
bvichtanding'oup long intercourſe with China, writers are ſtill 
ded about the different ſpecies and culture of the tea plant. It 
zerally thought that the green and bohea grows on the ſame 
b but that the latter admits of ſome kind of preparation, which 
way its raking qualities, and gives it a deeper colour. The 
kinds, which go by the names of imperial, congo, ſinglo, and 
like, are occaſioned: probably by the nature of the ſoils, and from 
provinces in which they grow. The culture of this plant ſeems 
k very ſimple, and it is certain, that ſome kinds are of a much 
ther and more delicious flavour than others. It is thought that 
knelt, which is called the flower of the tea, is imported over 
to Ruſſia; but we know of little difference in their effects on 
human body, The greateſt is between the bohea and the green. 
The ginſeng, ſo famous among the Chineſe, as the univerial re- 
ly, and monopolized even by their emperors, is now found to 
but a common root, and is difeovered in the Britiſh America. 
ten brought to Europe, it is little diſtinguiſhed for its healing 
ities, and this inſtance alone ought to teach us with what cau- 
i the former accounts of China are to be read. The ginſeng 
rever, is a native of the Chineſe Tartary. — 


Metals and Minerali.] China produces all metals and minerals 
tare known in the world. White copper is peculiar to itſelf, but 
dow of no extraordinary quality it poſſeſſes. One ef the funda- 
tal maxims of the Chineſe government is that of not introducing 
wperabundancy of gold and ſilver, for: fear of hurting induſtry ; 
gold mines, therefore, are but ſlightly worked, and the curren- 
t that metal is ſupplied by the grains the people pick up in the 
i of rivers and mountains» The ſilver ſpecie is furniſhed from 


Wanes of Honan, 2 
opularion 


0 ö - r 3 

wo 5 ©  #E=7 | 
Population and Inbabitanti,] The number of Chineſs, b. 4 

comnts, does not fall ſhore of fifty” N 4 — 

oned to what we ate told of the vaſt population of particidlar 
and provinces. Moſt of thoſe accounts are exayyerated; an 
ſons, who viſit China, without any view of becoming zothe 
greatly diſappoiated in their mighty expectations, The Chin 

their perſons,” are middle ſized, their _ broad, their eyes 

and ſmall,” their noſes rather ſhort. The Chineſe have part 
„ideas of beauty. They pluck up the hairs of the lower part 6 
faces, by the roots, with tweezers, leaving a few ſtraggling of 
way of beard. ' Their Tartar princes compel them te cut 
Hair of their heads, and like . to wear only alc 
the crown. Their complexions*towards'the North is fair, to 
the South ſwarthy, and the futter a man is, they think im the 
ſomer. Men of quality, and learning, who are not much e 
to the ſun, are delicately complexioned, and they who are b 
letters, let the nails of their fingers grow to an enbrmous lenpt 

: ſhew that, they are not employed in manual labour.” | 
The women have little eyes, plump, roſy lips; black hair, 
lar features, and a delicate thovgh florid completion; The 
neſt of their feet is reckoned a principal part of their beauty 
no ſwathing is omitted, when. they are. young, to give they 
. accompliſhment,” ſo that when they grow up,” they may be f 
rotter rather than to walk. This fanciful piece of benuty wa 
bably invented by the ancient Chineſe, to palliate their jealouf 
The Chineſe in general are the moſt diſhoneſt, low, thievini 

in the world, and they employ their natural quickneſs only 
prove the arts of A the nations they deal with, eſpecial 
Europeans, whom they cheat with great caſe, particularly the 
liſh, but they oblerve that none but a Chineſe can cheat a Cl 
They are fond of law diſputes beyond any people in the 
Their hypocriſy is without bounds, and the men of property a 
them, practiſe the moſt avowed bribery, and the Jowelt meas 
to obtain preferment. 9 2 | | 


= 
2 


Dreſe.] This varies according to the degrees of men 
them. The men wear caps on their, heads of the faſhion'or 
thoſe of quality are ornamented with jewels: The reft of ther 

is eaſy and looſe, conſiſting of a veſt and a ſaſh, a coat or gown! 
over them, ſilk boots quilted with cotton, and a pair of dra 
The ladies towards the South wear nothing on their head. 
times their hair is drawn up in a net, and ſometimes it is dill 
led. their dreſs differs but little from that of the men, only 
gown or upper garment has very large open ſleeves. The 
both of men and women, varices according to the temperat 
the climate. © 2 8 


Marriages.] The parties never ſee each other in China! 
bargain is concluded by the parents, and that is generally 
parties are perfect children. Next to being barren, the g 
ſcandal is to bring females into the world; and if 2 woman of 4 
family happens to have three or ſour girls, ſucceſſively, the 


| "EEE RX &” - 1. 
| frarigle them, which is the principal reaſon of fo many chil: 


eng found in the ſtreets and highways. © © 
ale of note cauſe their coffins: to he made, and their tombs to 
* in their hſe-tirne. No perſons are buried within the walls of 
nor is a dead corpſe ſuffered to be brought into « town, if a 
died in the country. Every Chineſe keeps in his houſe a ta- 
yon which are written the names of his father, grandfather, 
t grandfather ; before which they frequently burn incenſe, 
roltrate themſelves; and when the father of a family dies, the 
of the great 'gratidfather is taken away, and that of the de- 

l added. Ae UE n 


6 


wave] The Chineſe language conſiſts of a very few words, 
ther ſyllables, which admit of ſo many variations, and ſo much 
bed by ſounds and action, that it is generally thought no ſtran- 
u attain it, ſo as to ſpeak it. ini? yo x 


wu: and J. carning.] The genius of the Chineſe js peculiar to 
tes. They have no conception of what is beautiful in writ- 
regular in architecture, or natural in painting, and yet in their 
ning, and planning their grounds, they hit upon the true ſu - 
ad beautiful; * The learning of the Chineſe has been diſplayed 
ral ſpecimens publiſhed by Du Halde, as well as of poetry, 
bey contain no more than a ſet of maxims-and precepts, accom- 
lied to public and private life, without any thing argumentative 
criptive. They perform all the operations of arithmetic with 
ious quickneſs, but differently from the Europeans. Till the 
tame among them, they were ignorant of mathematical learn · 
ad all its depending arts. They had no apparatus for aſtro- 
tal obſervations ; and metaphyſical learning, if it exiſted among 

vas only known to their philoſophers ; but even the arts in- 
ed by the Jeſuits, were of very ſhort duration among them, 
halted very little longer than the reign of Cang-hi, who was 
mporary with our Charles II. nor is it very probable they ever 
e revived. It has been generally ſaid, that they underſtood 
Ing before the Europeans; but that can be only applied to 
printing, for the fuſile and moveable types were undoubtedly 
u or German inventions. The Chineſe, however, had al- 
, which were ſtamped from plates or blocks, many hundred 
before printing was diſcovered in Europe, The invention of 
powder is juſtly claimed by the Chineſe, who made uſe of it a- 
Lingis Khan and Tamerlane, They ſeem to have known no- 
of ſmall fire-arms, and to have been acquainted only with the 
n, which they call the fire - pan. Their induſtry in their ma- 
Ares of ſtuffs, porcelane, japanning, and the like ſedcntary 
1 8 amazing. "> | 


Wuitics and Curiofities.] The volcano of Lineſang 4s ſaid ſome- 
to make ſo furious a diſcharge of fire and aſhes, as to occaſion 
tp! in the air, and ſome of their lakes are ſaid to petrily fiſhes 
put into them. The artificial curioſities of China are ſtupen- 
The great wall, ſeparating China from Tartary, to prevent 

| 4 ©: the 


mum. II is in moſt places built of brick and mortar, whicl 


ther gentleman, who took a map of theſe provinces, often firs 


* 
0 


"Een WEE 
the incurſions of the Tartars, is ſuppoſed. to extend 1500 mile 
is carried over mountains and vallies, and teaches from the p 


of Xenfi to the Kang ſea, between the provinces of Pekin and 
well tempered, that though it has ſtood ſor 1800. years, it ig h. 
tle decayed. The beginning of this wall is 4 large bulwark of 
raiſed in the ſea, in the proyince of Patcheli,-to the Eaſt of 
and almoſt in the ſame latitude ;. it is built like the walls of ths 
tal city. of the empire, but much wider, being terraſſed and 
with bricks, and is from 20 to 25 feet high. P. Regis, and 


a line onthe top, to meaſure the baſis of triangles, and to ta 
tant points with an inſtrument. . They always found it paved 
enough for five or fix horſemen to travel abreaſt with eaſe, 
The artificial mountains preſent on their tops, temples, 4 
ſtaries, and other edifices, fabricated by hands. The Chineſe 
es cannot be ſufficiently admired. They are built ſometimes 
{aps ſtrongly chained together, yet ſo as to be parted, and 
the veſſels paſs that fail up and down the river. Some of thet 
from mountain to mountain, and conſiſt only of one arch ; tha 
the river Saffrany is 400 cubits long, and 500 high, though a 
arch, and joins two mountains; and ſome in the interior pa 
the empire, are ſaid to be ſtill more Rupendous, The tri 
arches of this country form the next ſpevies of artificial curic 
Though they are not built in the Greek or Roman tile of ard 
ture, yet they are ſuperb and beautiful. They are ſaid in the 
to be 1100, 200 of which are particularly magniſicent, Th 
pulchral monuments make likewiſe a great figure. Their te 
the models of which are now ſo common in Europe under the 
of pagodas, are vaſt embelliſhments to the face of their cor 
They ſeem to be conſtructed by a regular order, and all of the 
finiſhed with exquiſite carvings and gildings, and other ornar 
That at Nankin, which is 200 feet high, and 40 in diameter, 
moſt admired. It is cailed the Porcelaine Tower, becauſe it i 
ed with Chineſe tiles. Their temples are chiefly remarkable i 
diſagreeable taſte in which they arg. built, for their capaciog 
their whimſi-al ornaments, and the uglineſs of the idols they 
tain. The Chineſe are remarkably fond of bells, which gave 
to one of their principal feſtivals. A bell of Pekin weighs 12 
pounds, but its ſound is ſaid to be diſagreeable, Their fre- 
in China exceed thoſe of all other nations. 1 
Chief Citiet.] Some of theſe are immenſe, and there ig ges 
jon to believe their population is much exaggerated. Theemy 
fad to contain 4400 walled cities; the chief of which are's 
ankin, and Canton. The former is the reſidence of the pl 
royal ſamily, and is mnderately reckoned to contain two milld 
jahabitants, but Nankin is ſaid to exceed it both. in extent and 
lation. The walls of Pekin are 50 cubits high, and are de. 
by towers, at a bow-ſhot diſtance from each other, With red 
at every gate. It is divided into two parts, like London and en 
minſter, the Chineſe and the Tartar. The imperial pale, 


- 


= 7 © I 35 ü 
aber than an amaz zing aſſemblage of neat beautiſul buildings, 
bout order or regularity, ſtands in the latter. ed 


k and Manufacturer.] Their induſtry is without taſte or ele- 
though carried on with vaſt art and neatneſss They make 
ref the bark of bamboo, and bther trees, as well as of cotton, 
wt comparable for records or printing, to the European. Their 
for the uſe of drawing, is well known in England, and'is ſaid 
made of dil and lamp-black. I have already mentioned the 
ty of their printing, which they fill do by cutting their cha- 
{x on blocks of wood. The manufacture of that earthen ware; 
ally known by the name of China, was long a ſecret in Europe, 
brought immenſe ſums to that country. The ancients knew 
leemed it highly under the name of Porcelaine, but it was of 
better fabric than the modern. The Chineſe ſilks are gene- 
plain and flowered gauſes, and they are ſaid to have been ori- 
j fabricated in that country, where the art of rearing ſilk · worms 
Wit diſcovered. They manufacture filks likewiſe of a more du- 

nd; and their cotton, and other cloths, are famous for fur 

ko a light warm wear. N | 5 
dir trade, it is well known, is open to all the European na- 
; vith whom they deal for ready money; for ſuch is the pride 
narice of the Chineſe, that they think no manufactures equal 
it own. But it is certain, that ſince the diſcovery of the Por- 
ne manufactures, and the vaſt improvements the Europeans have 
in the weaving branches, the Chineſe commerce has been ort 
&elines | | 1 


ration and Gobernment.] Though their princes retain many 
mental maxims of the old Chineit, before they were conquered 
be Tartars, they have obliged the inhabitants to deviate from 
ucent diſcipline in many reſpedts. The original plan of the 
| government was patriarchal, almoſt in the ſtricteſt ſenſe of 
word. Duty and obedience to the father of each family was re- 
pended and enforced in the moſt rigorous manner, but at the 
ime, the eniperor was conſidered as the father of the whole. His 
Marines, of głeat officers of ſtate, were lboked upon as his ſub- 
kts, and the degrees of ſubmiſſion due from the inferior ranks 
ie ſuperior, were ſettled and obſerved with the moſt ſcrupulous 
kilon, and in a manner that to us ſeems highly ridiculous. The 
kle legiſlators, Confucius particularly, appear to have been 
of wonderful abilities. They enveloped their dictates in a num- 
of myſtical appearances, ſo as to ſtrike the people with awe - 
reneration. The mandarines had modes of ſpeaking and writ- 
difetent ſrom thoſe of otter ſubjects, and the people were 
to believe, that their princes partook of divinity, fo that they 
d ſeldom ſeen, and more ſeldom approached. 
wn7zh this ſyſlem preſerved the public tranquility, for an in · 
de number of years, yet it had a findamental effe& that often 
led; and at laſt proved fatal to the Rate, becauſe the ſame at- 
0 was not paid to the military as the civil duties. The Chi- 
lad paſſions like other men, and ſometimes a weak 0% wicked ad - 
| | 4 C2 miniſtration 


* 1 7 = as. As 
L 


52 . I RN dd. 5 
_ miniſtration drove them into arms, and a revolution eafily faces 
which they juſtified by ſaying, that their fovereign had ceafed 
their father. During thoſe commotions, one of the parties 
rally invited their neighbours the Tartafsto their afliftance, 
was thus thoſe barharians, who had great ſagacity, became acg 
ed with the weak lite of their conſtitution, and they availed 
felves accordingly, by invading and conquering the empire. 
By their inſtitutions the mandarines might remonſtrate to 
peror, but in the moſt ſuhmiſſive manner, upon the errors of 4 
vernment; and when he was a virtuous prince, this freedom 
ten. attended with the moſt ſalurary effects. No country in the 
is ſo well provided with magiſtrates for the diſcharge of juſtice 
in civil and criminal matters, as China, but they are often inf 
al through, want of public virtue in the execution. | The empe 
ſtiled Holy Son of Heaven, Sole Governor of the Earth; Great 1 
of bir puſs. + + \/ "ISR 


Religion. ] Though the ancient Chineſe worſhipped idols, and 

ed to admit of a particular providence, yet their philoſopher 
legiſlators were atheiſts or materialiſts, and indulged the pech 
the worſhip of ſenſible. objects, only to make them more ſub 

to government. The Jeſuits long impoſed upoꝶ the public of E 
on this head, and ſuffered their proſelytes to workup Tien, pre 
ing, that it was no other than the name of Godz but a fick 
being made by the court of Rome, it was found to fignify un 
matter. The truth is, Confucius, and the Chineſe legillators 
troduced a moſt excellent ſyſtem of morals among the people 
endeavoured to ſupply the belief of a inture ſtate, by preſeribi 
them the worſhip of inferior deities. Their morality approxi 
to that of Chiriſtianity,, but as we know little of their religion 
through the Jeſuits, we cannot adopt for truth the numerou 
ſtances which they tell us of the conſormity of the Chineſe wit 
Chriſtian religion, Thoſe fathers, it muſt be owned, were m 
great abilities, and made a wonderſu] progreſs above acentury 
in their converſions ; but they miſtook the true character of the 
peror who was their patron, for he no ſooner found that they 
in ſa& aſpiring to the civil direction of the government, than 
pelled them, levelled their churches with the ground, and pre 
ted the exerciſe of their religion; ſinee which time Chriſtianit 
made no figure in China. | 4 


$44 


\Revenues.] Theſe are ſaid by ſome, to amount to twenty m 
ſterling a year: but this cannot be meant in money, Whieh dee :; 
at all abound. in China, The taxes collected ſar the uſe of pe 
vernment in rice, and other commodities, are certainly very gs 
and very poſſibly amount to that ſum. - 


Military and Marine Strergth.] China is, at this time, a far icon 
powerful empire than it was before its conqueſt by the caflern 
rars in 1644+ This is owing to the conſummate policy of Chuns 
the firſt Tartarian emperor of China, who . obliged his hereannttt.. 
ſubjects. to conform themſelves to the Chineſe manners and PR C 


* 


ke Chineſe to wear che Tartar dreſs and arms. The two tid 


— 


all offices of the empire. The emperor made Pekin the ſear 


country and condition which was ſo much in their favour. 
his ſecurity, however, of the Chineſe ſrom the Tartars, takes 


- 


De to that empire. The only dan that threatens it at pre: 


millions of men, but in theſe are comprehended all who are 
bred in the collection ol er revenue, and the preſervation of 
anals, the great roads, and the public peace. The imperial 


% © 


j chiefly of the junks, and other ſmall ſhips, that trade coaſt- 
j or to the neighbouring countries, or to prevent ſudden de · 


bry.] The Chineſe pretend, as a nation, to an antiquity be- 
ul meaſure of credibility ; but thqugh their pretenfions have 
repeatedly confuted by Jearned men, they certainly have evi- 
x of a much higher antiquity than any people on earth (the 
acepted) can produces Their exactneſs is altronomical obſer- 
x, rude as they were in that ſcience, before their commerce 
e Europeans; the immemorial uſe of printing their peace- 
patriarchal ſcheme of government, and ſeveràl other incidental 
mages, contributed to this priority. A ſucceſſion of excellent 
„and a duration of domeſtic trapquility, united legiſlation 
phloſophy, and produced their Fo- hi, whoſe hiſtory, however, 
pped up in myſteries; their Li- Lackum, and, above all, their 
brius. After all, the internal revolutions of the empire, tho? 
produced the moſt dreadful effects, in proportion as its conſti- 
n vas pacific, and they were attended with the molt bloody ex- 
nations in ſome provinces ; ſo that thongh the Chineſe empire 
reditary, the imperial ſucceſſion was more than once broken in- 


ther the great Zinghis Khan, nor Tamerlane, though they 
kb celented the Chineſe, could ſubdue their empire, and neither 
em could keep the conqueſts they made there. The celebrated 
proyed but a feeble barrier againſt the arms of thoſe famous 
i, Atter their invaſions were over, the Chineſe went to war 


 tching, was upon the throne. In the mean while a bold re- 
med Li. cong tſe, in the province of Se-tchuen, dethroned 
nperor, who hanged himſelf, as did moſt of his courtiers and 
n. Ou - ſan · quey, the Chineſe general, on the. frontiers of 
ay, refuſed to recognizance the uſurper, and made a peace 


brone, and took poſſeſſion of it himſelf, about the year 1644. 
lartar maintained himſelf in his authority, and, as has been al- 
| mentioned, wiſely incorporated his hereditary ſubjects with 
zmeſe, ſo that in effect Manchew Tartary became an acquiſi- 
China, He was ſucceeded by a prince of great natural and 

| acquired 


206 1 Mc 
rere thereby incorporated. The Chineſe were appointed to all 
b government, and the 'Vartars quietly: ſubmitted. to à change 


them all ne RropeRs the Tartar power alone being for- | 
i; the diſuſe of arms. The Chineſe, land army is ſaid to conſiſt 


b amount to about 30,000. As to the marine force, it is com · 


we Manchew Tartars, while an indelent worthleſs emperor, . 


Torgate, the Manchew prince, who drove the ufurper from 


= 
Oe et net ———— — — 
Þ - — 


$54 TE” 1% ASIA, 
acquired abilities, who was the patron of the Jeſyirs, but knew 
to cheek them when he found them 1 with the FL, 
his government. _ 
About the year 1661, the Chineſe, under "this "Tartar "4, 
drove the Dutch out of the iſland of Forthofi, which the latte 

taken from the Portugueſe, Though the intercourſe between 
rope and China has * greatly improved ſince that time, yi 
Tuo little of the internal events of China, excepting that out 
is now at a low paſs in that country, owing to the vaſt diltance 
uncertainty of the voyage, the native *chicanery of the C 
themſelves, and the Europeans having Tupplied Keats eit 
| bre or from ocher countries with mh; ot thetr Eommoditie 


p [ * * , | 7 
= : : 
3 * 0 0 - - 9 — wy * t 2.4 45 # * P* + - : 2 * 
« _ : * 3 » k 
” * F 0 * 
. 1 | * ' / . 
0 1 9 * 34 1 4 * 
14 . . 4 4 14 :, + 4 
i | * 
7 » 9 7 
« - * 19 4 W , = 
: # - * : . 1 * 1 13 : x* : £ 
_ 
of 1 


Srevarios AND E 


2 > Miles. Fw {1 ; 
Length 4000 50 * 15 Eal TT” 
Breadth 2 between * 30 and 72 North latitudes 


Boundaries.] F would be ES TOYS; the reader to deſire N 
depend upon any accounts given. us by ge 
ers, of the extent, limits, and ſituation of thoſe valt rg 
ven the empreſs of Ruſſia and her miniltry'are ignorant of he! 
cife limits with the Chineſe, the Perſians, and _ nations. 
tary, taken in its fulleſt extent, is bounded. by the Frozen Of 
on the North; by the Pacific or Oriental Ocean, on the Ealt 
China, India, Perſia, and the Caſpian Sea, on the Gala. 


Muſcovy, on the Welt. | | ; 
Grand diviſions. Subdiviſions. © | Chief town... 
| Kamſchatks 5 


North. calt divifion Kamſchatka Tartars 5 ; 
Jakutſkoi Tartars 
Bratſ i! 
f South. cal diviſion & Thibet and Mongul 5 3 
Tartars — p 
North-weft diviſion N — — ? ſp 2 
. 


152 Circaſſian & Aſtracan 
_ - Bouth-welt diriſion 3 U ey 
Oo X Siberia — — 
Middle divifion + der and U 
| Tartary — — 


Maus! 


TARTARY in ASIA | a 


maine.) The principal mountains are thoſe of Caucaſus, in 
ſa, and the mountains of Stolp, in the North. _. , 


J Theſe are the Frozen Ocean, the \Pacific Ocean, the fea 
nichatka, and the Caſpian Sea. 5 N 


en] The rivers, are, the Wolga, which runs a courſe of 
niles ; the Obey, which divides Aſia from Europe 4 the Ta- 
is, Geneſa or Jenſka 3. the Lena, and the Argun, which di- 
the Ruſſian and Chineſe empire. 


„ C:imate, Soil, and Produce.) The air of this country is-ve- 
ferent, by reaſon of its vaſt extent from North to Sonth; the 
ern parts reaching beyond the arctie polar circle, and the 
em being in the ſame latitudes, with Spain, France, Italy, and 


Turkey. 2 L | 2 
mn Zembla and Ruſſian Lapland are moſt uncomfortable re- 


; the earth, which is covered with ſnow nine months in the 
being extremely barren, and every where encumbered with 
jiſome marſhes, uninhabited mountains, and impenetrable - 
Wiſes, Though Siberia is as it were another name for a coun- 

horror, yet we are told that the air of the Southern parts is 

dy mild, the ſoil furniſhed with good water, and cultivated 
ſome ſucceſs, The beſt accounts we have of its interior appear - 

is from the ingenious French gentlemen who were ſent thi- 

tbo make aſtronomical obſervations; they all agree in repreſent» 

tas a diſmal region, and-almoſt uninhabited. Aſtracan and 
dthern parts of Tartary, are extremely fertile, owing more to 
than induſtry. The parts that are cultivated produce excel- 
fits of almoſt all the kinds known in Europe, eſpecially grapes, 

are reckoned the largeſt and fineſt in the world. Their Sum- 

we very dry: and from the end of July to the beginning of 

er, the air is peſtered, and the ſoil ſometimes rained by in- 

le quantities of locuſts. Mr Bell, who travelled with the 
kn ambaſſador to China, repreſents ſome parts of Tartary as 

bl: and fertile countries, the graſs growing ſpontaneouſly to 
hazing height, | 


tals and Minerals.) It is ſaid that Siberia contains mines of 

lilver, copper, iron, jaſper, lapis lazuli, and loadſtones j a 
large teeth ſound here, creates ſome diſputes among the na- 
lt, whether they belong to elephants, or ate a marine produec- 
i their appearance is certainly whimſical and curious when po- 
wich art and ſkill, | 


nals.) Theſe are camels, dromedaries, bears, wolves, and 
le other land and amphibious animals that are common in the 
parts of Europe. Their horſes are of a good ſize for the ſad · 
ud very hardy; as they run wild till they are five or fix years 
ey are generally headttrong. Near Aſtracan there is a bird 
by the Ruſſians baba, of a grey colour, and ſomething larger 
wan; he has @ broad bill, under which hangs a bag that 
may 


wt... Z 
* 8 1 eat. 

\ . * - * * N Y —_ 
2 * * _ 8 3 SI 

_ - x g d n 


* 


* N A a _ o 
3 1 — 


N * 


— 


o TFPFTFARTARY ++ AST 
may contain a quart or more; he wades near the edge of the 
and on ſeeing a ſhoal or fry: of ſmall fifties, Ipreade his wix 

-drives them to a ſhallow, where he' gobbles as many of them 
1 | ea into his bag, and then going aſhore, eats them or carries 
3 + 0 the young. Some travellers take this bird to be the pelica 


» 4 Inhabitants, Manners, Cufloms, Diver ions, and Dreſ;.] 
_ ., Form'no probable gueſs as to the number of inhabitants n T 
but from many cireumſtances we may conclude that they 
proportioned to the extent of their country, » They ate in g 
ſtrong made, ſtout men: their faces broad, their noſes flartih 
eyes ſmall and black, but very quick ; their beards are ſcarce 
ſible, as they Tontinnally thin them by pulling up the hairs | 
roots. The beauty of the Circaſtian women is a kind of ſtaple 
= modity in that country; for parents there make no ſcruple of 
=. their daughters to recruit the ſeraglios of the great men of I 
is and Perſia. They are purchaſed, when young, by merchant 
taught ſuch accompliſhments as ſuit their capacities; to render 
more valuable againſt the day of ſale.” * The Tartars are in g 
| A & wandering ſort of people: in their peregrinations they ſet 
* the ſpring, their number in one body being frequently 10,000 
i |  reded by their flocks and herds. When they come to an in 
$ ſpot, they live upon it till all its graſs and verdure is eaten up. 
| 
| 


huve little money, except what they get from their neighbo 
Ruflians, Perſians, or Turks, in exchange tor cattle ; with thi 
| many cloth, filks, ſtuffs, and other apparel for their wi 
hey have few mechanics, except choſe Who make arms. II 
void all labour as the greateſt ſlavery, their o, employment is 
ing their flocks, hunting, and managing their horſes. If th 
| angry with a perſon, they wiſh he may live in one fyed place 
* work like a Ruſfian. Ameng themſelves they are very hob 
A and wenderfully fo to the firangers andtravellers who conan 
put themſelves under their protection. They are naturally of 
iy chearful temper, always diſpoſed to laughter, and ſeldom al 
b Ned by care or melancholy, There is a ſtrong reſemblance ven 
: the Northern Tartars and ſome nations of Canada in North 4 
ca, particularly when any of their people are infirm through 
| 


age, or ſeized with diſtempers reckoned incurable, they 8 
ſmall hut for the patient near ſome river, in which they lea 
with ſome proviſions, and ſeldom or never return to viſit him 
fuch occaſions they ſay they do their parents a good office, is 


ing them to a better world, Natwithſtanding this behaviour, th 
-. nations of the Tartar, eſpecially toward the South, are wa cha. 
© humane, and are ſuſceptible of pions and virtuous ſentiments. lilo 
| affection for their fathers, and their ſubmiſſion to their aut ting 


cannot be exceeded; and this noble quality of filial love has 
ö guiſhed them in all ages. Hiſtory tells us that Darius, king 
| Ba, having invaded them with all the forces of his empire, Þ 
| Seythians retiring by little and little, Darius ſent an ambaſſa 
1 demand where it was they propoſed to corſclude their retres 

when they intended to begin fighting. They returned for anſxe 
2a ſpirit ſo peculiar to that people, “ That they had —_ 


\ 


* . + , X % | 

Tn TY 7. 4. 5 * T7, * LY 
>. TARTARY is ASTA. 1 
ited fields, for the defence. of which they ſhould give hint 
but when once he was come to the place of their fathers 


is 


ans uſed to fight?? | | ; 
C Tartars are inured to horſemanſhip from their infancy z they 
appear on foot, They are dexterous in ſhooting at a mark, 


ww, though at a conſiderable diſtance. The dreſs of the men 
imple and fit for action; it generally conſiſts of a ſhore 
\ with narrow fleeves made of deer-ſkin, having the fur out- 
;rrowſers and hoſe of the ſame kind of ſkin3 both of one piece, 
ht to the limbs. The Tartars live in huts half ſunk under 
[; they have a fire in the middle, with a hole in the top to 


kems to be the common method of living among all the Nor- 
wtions, from Lapland Eaſtward, to the Japaneſe ocean. In 
atreme Northern regions, during the Winter, every family 
itſelf as it were under ground; and we are told, that fo 
are they in their diſpoſitions, that they make ſubterraneous 
mications with each other, ſo that they may be ſaid to live 
ariſible city. The Tartars are immoderately fond of horſe- 
checially if it be young, and a little tainted, which makes 
abbins extremely nauſeous. Though horſe-fleſh be preferred 
h ſome Northern trihes, the general way of eating it is after its 
ken ſmoaked and dried. The Tartars purchaſe their wives 
attle, In their marriages they are not very delicate. Little 


Wit of the wife; but among the heads of the tribes, the wife's 
balways preferred to the ſucceſſion, Aſter a wife is turned of 
i employed in menial duties as another ſervant, and as ſuch 
mend the young wives who ſucceed to their places; nor is it 
non in ſome of the more barbarous tribes, for a father to 
bs own daughter. n 8 

/ 


n.] The religion of the Tartars ſomewhat reſembles their 
mernment, and is commonly accommodated to that of their 
ours, for it partakes of the Mahometan, the Gentoo, the 
and even the popiſh religions. Some of them are the groſ- 
Waters, and worſhip little rude images dreſſed up in rags. Each 
V own deity, with whom they make very free when matters 
| 7 according to their own mind. The religion and govern- 

the kingdom of Tibet, a large tract of Tartary, bordering 
China, form the moſt extraordinary article that is to be found 
liſtory of mankind, The Tibettians are governed by a liv- 
Ming, and drinking god, whom they believe to be omnipotents 
om they call the Grand Lama, or Dalay Lama. He reſides 
Roda or temple, upon the mountain Putali, in a croſs-legged 
but without ſpeaking or moving, otherwiſe than by ſome- 
fig his hand in approbation of a favourite worſhipper. Not 
lie Tibettines, but the neighbouring princes and people flock 


aud he generally appears to be à healthy, ruddy-faced young 


— 


| 


ments, he Jhould then underſtand in what manner the Scy- 


ch that a Tartar, while at full gallop, will cleft a pole with 


the ſmoak, and benches round the fire to fit or lye, upon. 


liference is made between the child of a concubine or ſlave, ' 


walble numbers, with rich preſents, to pay him their adora- 


Pl 


— £, 

* * n . 

! 4 | ö OI m 
1 - = l * u 


4 & 1A | ** .<& 4 2 . 
 TARTARY xx i 
man, about 29 years of age This being appoints dent 
him, the chief of Ry 4 called the — KG ler 
the temporal affairs of the kingdom, and has a number of | 
ted lamas. Theſe are properly the king and the governors « 
both civil and military ; it being below the dignity of the 8¹ 
ma to ſuperintend any temporal concerns. 
As to the grand lama, he is himſelf the moſt miſerable 1 
the empire. He is purchaſed, when young, from a healthy | 
and privately brought up by the lamas to the buſineſs of b 
tion, which is to move by clock work, and to be carried in 
the place of his impriſonment, where he remains till next da 
the farce of his enthronement is repeated. When he falls 1 
comes too old to act his part, he is diſpatched by his minide 
produce another, as like him as they can find in his root 
when any alteration is obſerved, they always give ſatisfad 
fons why the dalay lama has changed his appearance. He 
ſuffered to touch any of the fine fruits or viands that are bre 
bis ſhrine, all which are devoured by his miniſters, who tx 
to diet him in his priſon. Such are the general outlines of 


tended theocracy, in which all travellers are agreed, howey 
may differ among themſelves as to modes and circumſtances, 


. Curioftties.) Theſe are comprehended in the remains of the by 
left by the abovementioned great conquerors, and their ſuct 
they are, however, but little known to Europeans, though 
of them are ſaid to have been diſcovered by the wandering 1 
the internal parts of the country, Some gold and filver coin 
ſame princes have likewiſe been found, with ſeveral manuſerig 
y written, which have been carried to Peterſburg, In 172 
Mr Voltaire, in his hiſtory of Peter the Great, there was i 
Calmuc Tartary, a ſubterraneous houſe of ſtone, ſome urns, 
and ear-rings, an equeſtrian ſtatue, an oriental prince with a 
on his head, two women ſeated on thrones, and a roll o 
ſcripts, which was ſent by Peter the Great to the Academy 
ſeriptions at Paris, and proved to be in the language of Tibe 


Cities and Towns.) Of theſe we know little but the nam 
that they are no better than fixed herds. They may be 1a 
places of abode rather than towns or cities, for we do not fi 
they are under any regular government, or that they. can! 
defence againſt an enemy. The few places, however, that 
tioned. in the preceding diviſions of this country, merit nouc 
bolſki and Aſtracan are conſiderable cities, the firſt containing 
and the latter 50,000 inhabitants. Forts, villages, and town 
lately been erected in different parts of Siberia, for cinimagy 
habitants, and rendering them obedient to the Ruſhay gove 
But J apprehend it will require a conſiderable time before at 
plan of government can be formed in this country. 


Commerce and Manufacturer. ] This head makes no gur 


| hiſtory of Tartary, their chief traffic conſiſting in cattle, 1 
vers, rhubard, muſk, and filk The Aſtracans, Aw 


TARTARY x» ASIA, 870 
eruptions by the wild Tartars, carry on a conſiderable traf. 
«Perſia, to which they export red leather, woolen and linen 
ud ome European'manufaRures. e 7 BIG | 


%.] Though it is certain that Tartary, formerly known by 
une of Scythia, peopled the Northern parts of Europe, and 
} thoſe amazing numbers. who, under various names, de- 
1the Roman empire, yet it is now but very thinly inhabited; 
loſe fine provinces, where learning and the arts refided, are 
tnes of horror and barbarity. This muſt have been owing 
readſul maſſacres made among the nations by Zingis Khan 
\nerlane, and their deſcendants ; for nothing is more common 
| hiſtories than their putting to the ſword three or ſour hundred 
people in a few days, | 1 
—_ country of Uſbec Tartary was once the ſeat of a more power- 
wire than that of Rome or Greece. It was not-only the na- 
muatry, but the favourite reſidence of Zingis Khan and Ta- 
xe, who enriched it with the ſpoils of India and the Eaſtern 
L It is ſo difficult to diſcover any remains of ificence 
that ſome authors have abſurdly queſtioned the veracity of the 
uns of theſe great aonquerors, though it is better eſtabliſhed 
that of the Greek or Roman writers. The ſame may be ſaid 
Wierlane, whoſe memory has been more permanent than that 
s Khan, and whoſe deſcent is claimed not only by all the 
and petty princes of Tartary, but by the emperor of Indoſtan 
The capital of this country is Bokharia, which was known 
ancients by the name of Bucharia, and it is ſituated in the la - 
of 39 degrees 15 minutes, and 13 miles diſtant from the once 
city of Samarcand, the birth-place of Tamerlane the Great. 
e preſent inhabitants of this immenſe common compoſe innu- 
ble tribes, who range at pleaſure with their flocks and their 
in the old patriarchal manner. Their tribes are commanded 
Hate Khans or leaders, who, upon particular emergencies, 
great Khan, who claims a paramount power, over ſtrangers 
as natives, and who can bring into the field from 20 to 
00 horſemen, Their chief refidence is a kind of military ſta- 
wich is moved and ſhifted according to the chance of war 
ber occaſions, They are bounded on every fide by the Ruſ- 
\ the Chineſe, the Mogul, the Perſian, or the Turkiſh empires; 
I« whom are puſhing on their conqueſts in this extenſive, and 
ae places fertile country. The Khans pay a tribute, or ac- 
algement of their independency, upon one or other of their 
ru neighbours, who treat them with caution and lenity ; as 
fendſkip of theſe barbarians is of the utmoſt conſequence to the 
" with whom they are allied. Some tribes, however, affect 
Fndency, and when united they form a powerful body, and of 
ne been very formidable to their neighbours, particularly to 
ineſe, as we thall mention in our account of that empire. 
* method of carrying on war, by wailing the country, is very 
= among the Tartars, and practiſed by all of them from the 
Eaſtward. This circumſtance renders them a dreadful 
4D 2 enemy; 


. a * 9 n 
* i : > a. —" £ „ * 
3 enn _ 
* mmm 
. . * — 
„ * 


& «als 


4 ” 4 © 4 | 1 8 * \ 
£ _ þ _ 1 | ” 1 3 * - : 4 Pal . 0 ? þ 7 F 

580 Ixtra and OntenTas ISLAND F 
enemy to regular troops, muſt thereby be deprivea it 


ence; while the Tartars, having always man 0 
and eat, are at no loſs for proviſions, ada ay ſpare 1 


* - 
* 


rue INDIAN and ORIENTAL ISLANDS ate 


n | at | 
HE JAPAN ISLANDS, which together form what h 
called the empire of Japan, and are governed by at 
ſpotic prince, who is ſometimes called emperor and ſometime 
They are ſituated about 150 miles Eaſt of China, and exten 
the zoth to the 4iſt degree of North latitude, and from the 
to the 147th of Eaſt longitude, The chief town is Jeddo, WM 

141ſt degree of Eaſt longitude, and the 36th of North latitudg 
ſoil and productions of the country, are pretty much the ſand 
thoſe of China; and the inhabitants are famous for their 
ware, known by the name of Japan. The iſlands theme] 
very inacceſſible, through their high rocks and tempeltuoy 

they are ſubject to earthquakes, and have ſome volcanos. 
paneſe are the. groſſeſt of all idolaters, and ſo irreconcilable tc 
ſtianity, that it is commonly ſaid the Dutch, who are the on 
ropean people with whom they now trade, pretend themſelve 
no Chriſtians, and humour the Japaneſe in the moſt abturd { 
tions. Notwithſtanding all this compliance, the natives ar 
ſhy and rigorous in all their dealings with the Dutch, and 
hazel, in the iſland of Ximo, is the only place, where they 
fered to trade. Notwithſtanding their ſuperſtition and igad 
the natives are a moſt induſtrions penetrating people; the 
the Chineſe themſelves in the manufactures that are common 
2 and at leaſt equal them in huſbandry and the 

e. | | 


The LADRONE ISLANDS, of which the chief town is 
be Guam, Ealt longitude 140, North latitude 14 are about 
in number. The-people took their name from their piltermg 
ties. We know nothing of them worth a particular mention. 


FORMOSA is likewiſe an oriental iſland. \ It is ſituated 
Eaſt of China, near the province of Fo-kein, and i; divide 
two parts by a chain of mountains, which runs through the! 
beginning at the South coaſt, and ending at the North. 1 
very fine iſland, and abounds with all the neceſſaries of lite 


The PHILIPPINES, of which there are 1100 in number, 
the Chineſe ſea, (part of the Pacific Ocean) 300 miles 908 | 
Jof China, of which Manilla, or Luconia, the chief, 1s 4% Part 
long, and 200 broad. The inhabitants conſiſt of Chineſe, Wy” tt: 


* 


bl A [ \ 

Txorax and Oxreoval ISI ANI Ir 
lays, Spaniards, Portugueze, Pintudos, or painted "ped- © - 

Pr POR of all Neſs, The property of W 

t) the king of Spain, they having been diſcovered by Magel- 

afterwards conquered by the Spaniards in the reign of 

l. from whom they take their name. The inhabitants trade 

erco and Peru, as well as all the iflands and places of the 

ies, Two ſhips from Acapulco, in Mexico, carry on this 

«ce for the Spaniards, Who make 40 per cent: profit. The 

is fruitful in all the neceſſaries of life, and beautiful to the 

ſeniſon of all kinds, buffaloes, hogs; ſheep, goats, and a 

war large ſpecies of monkies, are found here in great plenty. 

of the bird ſaligan affords that diſſolving jelly which is 10 

yous u rarity at European tables. Many European fruits and 

b thrive ſurprizingly in thoſe iſlands, © If a ſprig of an orange 

un tree is planted there, it becomes within the year a frui- 

tree; ſo that the verdure and luxuriancy of the foil is al- 

acredible, The tree amet ſupplies the natives with water; 

Gere is alſo a kind of cane, which if cut yields fair water enough 

fzvght, of which there is plenty in the mountaitis, where 

s molt wanted. we. bal Ned 20100 i 

þ city of Manilla contains about 3000 inhabitants; its. port is 

hing at the diſtance of three leagues, and defended by the 

of St Philip. In the year 1762, Manilla was reduced by the 


* 


þ under general Draper and admiral Corniſh, who took it bỹ 


and humanely ſuffered the archbiſhop, who was the Spaniſh 
Yat the ſame time, to ranſom the place for about à million 
; The bargain, however, was ungenerouſly diſowned by 
ud the court of Spain, ſo that great part of the ranſom is ſtill 
' The Spaniſh government is ſettled there, bat the Indian 
cuts pay a capitation tax. The other iſlands, particularly 
nao, the largeſt next to Manilla, are governed by petty princes 
ir own, whom they call ſultans. The ſultan of Mindanao is a 
metan. But, though theſe iſlands are enriched with all the 
fon of nature, yet they are ſubje& to moſt dreadful earthquakes, - 
&r, rains, and lightning; the ſoil is peſtered with many noxi- 
id venomaus creatures, aud even herbs and flowers, \whoſe 
6 kill almoſt inſtantaneouſly. Some of their mountains are 


| ; 
\ 
» . 


r MOLUCCAS, commonly called the SPICE or CLOVE ' 
NDS, are not out of ſight of each other, and lye all within 
bupaſs of 25 leagues to the South of the Philippines, in 125 
$ of Ealt longitude, and between one degree South and two 
Latitude. They are in number five, viz. Bachian, Machian, 
V Ternate, and Tydore. Thoſe iſlands produce neither corn 
ice, ſo that the inhabitants live upon a bread made of ſagoe. 
chief produce conſiſts of cloves, mace, and nutmegs, in vaſt 
tes, which are monopolized by the Dutch with ſo much jea- - 
| that they deſtroy the plants leſt the natives ſhould ſell the ſu- 
nerary ſpices to other nations. Thoſe iſlands, after being ſub- 
various powers, are now governed by three kings, ſubordi- 


the Dutch. Ternate is the largeſt of thoſe iſlands, though 
no 


/ 


. ** — 
—— ESA — os — — h 
pm 2 N * F * o 
IE < WOO TY 


% Iva end ON At TeLanay 


a fore, called Victoria, and another, called Fort Orange 


127 and 128. degrees Eaſt Jongitude, and between four 


| boyna is about 70 miles in circumference, and defended by a 


Tube ifland of CELEBES, or. MACASSAR, is ſitndted 


therefore thought to be the largeſt iſland in the world. The 


A „ . , * „ CI " 2 „ J "ng L p 
* 9 * * v * mne a, p _—_— * 
9 ” | N os a em Y 
* Ss 
* 


Wms j 
** rr 
2 5 
- 


: 


no more than zo miles in circumference. . The Dutch hay 


4 5 


The BANDA, or NUTMEG ISLANDS, are Atusted þ 


South latirude, comprehending the illands, of Laser, the 
towns of which are Lantor, Poleron, Roſinging, Poolowa 
Gonapi. The chief forts belonging to the Dutch on thoſe j 
are thoſe. of W Ef Naſſau. The nutmeg covered will 
mace, grows on iſlands only, and they are entirely ſul 

e enn 


' AMBOYNA. This iſland, is one, and the moſt confiders 
the Molnccas, which, in fact, it commands. It js fituated 
Archipelago of St Lazarus, between the third and fourth deg 
South latitude, and 120 leagues to the Eaſtward of Batavia. 


7 th 800 men, beſides ſmall forts,\who protect theit 


the equator, between the iſland of Borneo and the Spice iflan 
the diſtance of 160 leagues from Batavia, and is 500 miles 
and 200 broad. Notwithſtanding its heat, it is rendered hal 
by breezes from the North, and periodical rains. Its chief p 
is pepper and opium; and the natives are expert in the ſtudy « 
fons, with a variety of which nature has. furniſhed them, 
Dutch have a fortification on this iſland, but the internal p 
is governed by three kings, the chief of whom reſides in the tc 
Macaffar.. In this, and indeed in almoſt all the Oriental i 
the inhabitants live in houſes built on large poſts, which are 
ſible only by ladders, which they pull up 1a the night · time, fo 
ſecurity againſt venomous animals. They are ſaid to be holy 
and faithful, if not provoked. They carry on a large trade 
the Chineſe : and if their chiefs were not perpetually at war wil 
other, they might eaſily drive the Dutch from their iſland, 
port of Jampoden is the moſt capacious of any in that part 
world. | 


The Dutch have likewiſe fortified GILOLO and CERAM 
other ſpice iſlands lying under the equator, and will kak any 
that attempt to traffic in thoſe ſeas, | 


The SUNDA ISLANDS are fituated in the Indian ore 
tween 93 and 120 degrees of Eaſt longitude,. and between eigl 
grees North and eight degrees South latitude, comprehendis 
iflands of Borneo, Sumatra, Java, Bally, Lambo, Banca, © 


BORNEO. is faid to be 800 miles long and 700 broad, : 


' 
Ly 


* A * | 


Ix pt AN and Of N TAL Isi anus. 583 
be country is marſhy and unhealthy, and the inhabitants 
owns built upon floats in the middle of the rivers. The foil 
es rice, cotton, Canes, pepper, camphire, the tropical fruits, 
and excellent diamonds. The famous ourang - outang, one of 
uns diſſected by Dr Tyſon at Oxford; is a native of this coun · 
ad is thought of all irrational beings, to reſemble a man the 
The original inhabitants live in the mountains, aud make 
poiſoned darts, but the ſea coaſt is governed by Mahometan 
the chief port of the iſland is Benjar · Maſſeen, and carries 


7 


ummerce with all trading nations. | 


SATRA has Malacca on the North, Borneo on the Eaſt, and 
Ja the South-Eaſt, from which it is ſeparated by the ſtraits of 
yz it is divided into two equal parts by the equatory extending 
bores, and upwards, North-Weſt of it, and five on the South- 
and is 1000 miles long, and 100 broad. This iſland produces 
x gold, that it is thought to be the Ophir mentioned in the 
Wires ; but its chief trade with the Europeans lyes in pepper. 
figliſh Eaſt India company have two ſettlements here, Ben- 
a and Fort Marlborough, from whence they bring their chief 


xs of pepper. 


| greateſt part of JAVA belongs to the Dutch, who have here 
ba kind of commercial monarchy, the capital of which is Ba- 

anoble and populous city, lying in the latitude of fix degrees 

þ, at the mouch of the river Jucata, and furniſhed with one of 
eſt harbours in the world. The town itſelf is built in the 

ter of thoſe in Holland, and is about a league and a halffin cir- 

rence, with five gates, and ſurrounded by regular fortifica- 

i but its ſuburbs are ſaid to be ten times more populous than 

| The government here is a mixture of Eaſtern magnificence 

kropean police, and held by the Dutch governor-general of 

dies, The citadel, where the governor has his palace, com- 

b the town and the ſuburbs, which are inhabited by natives 

woll every nation in the world; the Chineſe reſiding in this 

being computed at 100, ooo; but about 30,000 of that nation 

barbarouſly maſſacred, without the ſmalleſt offence that ever 

proved upon them, in 1740. This maſſacre was too unprovo- 

ud deteſtable to be defended even by the Datch, who, when the 

mor arrived in Europe, ſent him back to be tried at Batavia; 

le never has been heard of ſince. A Dutch garriſon of 3000 

kconſtantly reſides at Batavia, and about 15,000 troops are quar- 
An the iſtand and the neighbourhood of the city. Their go- 

ent is admirably well calculated to prevent the independency 

kr of the civil or military power; and England itſelf would find 

Kult to ſhake that republican empire 


e ANDAMAN and NICOBAR iſlands, lye at the entrance of 
bay of Bengal, and furniſh provifions, conſiſting of tropical, 
*and other neceſſaries, for the ſhips that touch there. They 
dlabited by a harmleſs, inoffenſive, but idolatrous people. 


| CEYLON 


| 
11 
5 
| 
1 
! 
4 
i 
4 


" Th 


* 
od 
* 


— —_ — _ 
= *7 = Bs 
n.0 3 * 
N 


* 


- 584 Ls. INDIAN. and, Ox 1: x TAL Texas 


_ - CEYLON. This iſland, is thought to be by nature 
and the fineſt iſland in the world. 155 ſituated Ach. 1 
near cape Comorin, the Southermolt extremity of the Hither 
ſula of India, being ſeparated from the coalt of Coromand 
narrow ſtrait, and is 2 50 miles long and 200 broad. The 
call it, with ſome ſhew of reaſon, the terreſtrial paradiſe ; 
produces, beſides excellent fruits of all kinds, long pepper, | 
ton, ivory, filk, tobacco, ebony, muſk, cryſtal, falt-petre, ſu 
lead, iron, ſteel, copper, beſides cinnamon, gold, and filvs 
all kinds of precious ſtones, except diamonds. All kinds of 
andtfiſh abound here. Every part of the iſland is well woods 
watered, and beſides ſome curious animals / peculiar to itſelf 
plenty of cows, buffaloes, goats, hogs, deer, hares, dogs, 
ther quadrupeds. The Ceylon elephant is preferred to all c 
eſpecially if ſpotted; but ſeveral noxious animals, ſuch as ſe 

and ' ants, are likewiſe found here. The chief commodi 

iſland, however, is its cinnamon, which is by far the beſt in 
ſia. Though its trees grow in great profuſion, yet the beſt is 
: in the neighbourhood of Columbo, the chief ſettlement of the L 
and Negambo. The middle of the country is mountains 
woody, ſo that the rich and beautiful vallies are left in the 
ſion of the Dutch, who have in a manner ſhut up the king 
capital city, Candy, which ſtands on a mountain in the mid 
the iſland, ſo that he has ſcarcely any communication with othi 
/ tions, or any property in the riches of his own dominions. T 
habitants are in general a ſober inoffenſive people, and. are mi 

with Moors, Malabars, Portugueſe, and Dutch. 
The cinnamon tree, which is a native of this iſland, has t 
not three barks, which form the true cinnamon; the trees of a 
dling growth and age afford the beſt ; and-the body of the 
which when ſtripped is white, ſerves for building and othe 
In 1656, the Dutch were” invited by the natives of this del 
, ifland, to defend them againſt the Portugueze, whom they exp 
and have monopolized it ever ſince to themſelves. 


The MALDIVES are a vaſt cluſter of ſmall iſlands or little 
juſt above the water, lying between the equator and eight d 
North latitude, near Cape Comorin. They are chiefly reſort 
by the Dutch, who drive on a profitable trade with the nativ 
couries, a kind of ſmall ſhells, which go, or rather formerly 
for money upon the coaſts of Guinea and other parts of 

The cocoa of the Maldives is an excellent commodity in a med 
capacity : of this tree they build veſſels of 20 or 30 tons; their 
maſts, ſails, rigging, anchors, cables, proviſions, and firing 
from this uſeful tree. | | . 


7 


The other iſlands in Aſia, are thoſe of KAMSCHATKA 
the KURILE ISLES in the Eaſtern or Paeifie ocean, 1 
them lately diſcovered by the Ruſſians, and but little known. 
have already mentioned BOMBAY on the Malabar coaſt, in f , 
ing of India, | . : 


> = bi ! ' 6 - . a l * — 8 1 8 
SR SS DD r D, CES SFF PETS E = 0 4 —— 


N .% 
- 
24 3 


S F T TY * 8 es * CE) I" Ly e * * * 1 * 
P ut. +2 da 
4 N 9 ms hk A abs, BL 
ad — N n 
* A 


= * * I - 
- - * * 


In»14n and Oxrtzmral ISLAND. 383 

\ of the Oriental iſlands has a particular tongue; but the 

Lan, Chineſe,” Portugueze, Dutch, and Indian words are ſo 

at among them, that it is difficult for an European, who is 
g expert in thofe matters, to know the radical language. The 
u be almoſt ſaid of their religion, for though its original is 

Pagan, yet it is intermixed with mayy Jewiſh; Mahome-- 

xd other foreign ſuperſticions. | 5 


isi iA r PERS SSRN 


7 | * 
17 e J 1 8 "oo 
7 » * [ : - . 
3 I 
TY * 
274 
J \ 


FRICA is a Peninſula of a prodi exten 
Aſia only by a neck of land, about ior miles ove 
mus of Suez, and its utmoſt length from North to South 


Hope in 34-7 South latitude, is 4300 miles ; and the bi 
| the ſtraits of Babel-Mandel in 37-20 Eaſt lon rag is 


Lower Guinea. 


= * « 4 


the Red-ſea and the Mediterranean, uſually call 
Bona injthe Mediterranean, in 37 degrees North, to the ea 
from eape Verd in 17-20 degrees Welt, to cape Ou 


from Eaſt to Weſt. It is bounded on the North by t 
ranean ſea, which ſeparates it from Europe ; on the 
Iſthmus of Suez, the Red ſea, and the Indian ocean, w 
it from Aſia; on the South by the Southern ocean; 
ek by the great Atlantic ocean, which n it frot 


8 


; 1 iſt. & bearing 
; Nations. 1 Chief cities. from Londo — 
Morocco Fez | | 1080 8 
Algiers Algiers 920 8 
Tunis Tunis 992 8 E 
* Tripoli Tripoli 1260 8 E 
| Barca Tolemeta 1440 8 E 
Egypt rand Cairo 1920 8 E 
Bilidulgered Dara 
Zaara Tegeſſa N 1840 8 
Negroland Madinga 250 8 d 
2 Guinea enin 2700 8 
S ( Nubia Nubia 2418 8 E 
2 a Gondar 2880 8 E 
MH (Aber Doncala 3580 8 E N 
5 


The Middle parts, called Lower Ethiopia, are very 
to the Eoropeans. | 


Loango Loango 

Congo Salvador 
1 Angola Loando 
34 Benguels |[Beneguela 

Matanan No Towns 


ö £ LE 7 
Sx 
Wir 4 — 2 x 
* > 
*. Fs SV 
„ N + 
» » 8 
4 . + 
A * 
. 1 * , 
„ 
—< k 
. 4 1 8 
4 = * FS 
, — 
3 
4 2 = 
* * 
i. hs 
* 4 
„ . , 
- 
\ 1 | * 
1 
bs * 
5 $* F o . 
by of * 
" * 
a \ 
q 
ve . 


— # : 
1 
4 
4 | 
— * [ - 
* 4 
— ay 
j FX 
7 
* 75 
. 3 
i n 
% 
* 0 
T 
G 14 
"= 
% 
> i 
| x 1 * 
* — a 
. 7 
* . 
* 2 


% 5 
* 
==. 
« 
* 
* 
— 5 
o 
2 
1 
* N 
a 
— 
* 
j 
* 
8 
- 


4% : > l 5 5 g . \ 
0 ö ) ö — . 
. L * * 1 + " "oy 7 4 | 
. | | 
| i A 


. 
we I | 7 


traler 


* 


= * 


. 


ee 


— 
= 
4s - 


IV / Homes lace / 


a 


—c—— 


X * : . Sh | 
ee a 3% be WP OI? * dh ann . * —_— 4. 


» 


3 11 * * 


i y 


53-2 244-4 4 


Trot ee 


ET 


Brincipal iſlands of Africa lye in this Indian ſeas and Atlantie 
+ of which the following belong to, or trade with the Euros 
* ſerve to refreſh their ſhipping to and from India. 


4 


| Iflands. | Th \ Towns. 
adel, at the entrance of the Red Sea|Babelmandel | 
n the Indian Ocean —| Calanſia 
Mn es, ditto 9 — Joanna p 
9 — — — St Auſtin 
, ditto — —  O>| Mauritius - 
- Pano — N — — Bourbon 10 ; 
ena, in the Atlantic ocean =I Helena 
ditto — — — —] 
„ — 1 1 
Anaboa, Princes - iſland, : dit. St Thomas; Anaboa 4 
T1 AO TIO | | (- 
ditto. — — | St Domi 8 
k ditto — — — Fort St Michael 1 1 
ditto — ” — | Palma, St. Chriſtophers nn 
Ws, ditto — — = ISanta Crus, Funchal 11 
Pores, or Weſtern Iles, lye ) © | 3 
at an equal diſtance from = Angra 1 Hy 
Africa, and America | | | | f 
IN | | 
r. Rats 
Sirvarion ano Exrzur. 
| Length Nan 697 20 and 32 North latitude. 
breadth 250 baer 28 and 36 Eaſt longitude. 


1. 1555 is boubded by-the Mediterrancan fea, North 3 
by the/Red-ſea, Eaſt; by Abrtan, or the Up- 
4 per 


\ 


- 
- 


a, © , 


. * tural or artificial, When the river is at its proper height, 


» * 93 


- "2 * : FRE" n =_ 
— * — F * 
* 5 1 
. „ 
S . - y+--2- 
” 8 


per Ethiopia on the South ; and by the deſart of Barca. 2 
— of Africa, Weſt, "Ht is p34 2 


. : | 
Pe wn ac 
” 2 2 1 
, . 
# - N 1 
- 
* — 
1 9 
1 . 
= . 


- : L 
whe Chief wr 
Sezen 
32. N. lat, 
Bulac 5 
Alexandria 
Roſetto | 


| Damietta | 
2 (Sayd or Thebe 
LH 'Colliar © ” 


Air.] In April and May the air is hot, and often inſectiou 
Inhabitants are blinded with drifts of ſand. Thoſe evils are 
ec by the riſing and overflowing of the Nile. 


Soil and Producc.] The vaſt fertility of Egypt is got owing t 
little falling in that country) but to'the annual overflowing 
ile. It begins to riſe when the ſan is vertical in Ethiopia, 
annual rains fall there, viz. the latter end of May to Septembe 
ſometimes October. At the height of its flood in the Lower 
nothing is to be ſeen in the plains, but the tops of foreſts ang 
trees, their towns and villages being built upon eminences eith 


| Habitants celebrate a kind of a (jubilee, with-all ſorts of feſt 
The banks or mounds which confine it, are cut by the 
baſha, attended by his grandees ; but according to captain N 
who was preſent on the occaſion, the ſpectacle is not very m 
gent. When the banks are cut, the water is let into what th 
he Chalis, or grand canal, which runs through Cairp, from! 
t is diſiributed into cuts, for ſupplying their fields and g 
The culture of pulſe, melons, ſugar canes, and other plants, 
require moiſture, is ſupplied by ſmall but regular cuts from 9 
and reſervoirs. Pates, plantanes, grapes, figs, and pain 
from which wine is made, are here plentiful. March and A 
the harveſt months, and they produce three Erops ; one of 
and cucumbers, (the latter being the chief food of the inhab 
one of corn, and one of melons. The Egyptian palturage is 
ly prolific, moſt of the quadrupeds pr: ucing two at à tim 
the ſheep four lambs a- year. | | 


Animals.) Egypt abounds in black cattle, and it is ſaid th 
inhabitants employ every day 200,600 oxen, in railing WA 
their grounds. They have a fine large breed of aſſes, upon 
the Chriſtians ride, thoſe people not being ſuffered by the Tt 
ride on any other beaſt. The Egyptian horſes are ver) anc 
never trot, but walk well, and gallop with great ſpeed, turn 
ſtop in a moment, and are extremely tractable. The hippopot 
br river horſe, an amphibious animal, any, = ox in its 

parts, with the head like a horſe, is common in Upper FY 


N - 
; EF 


. - = 1 
. . 70 6 | 


WM. S..7S W.:-. 
| oss, camels, antelopes, apes, with the head like a and 
WT. ld Ichneumon, are natives of Egypt. The camelion, a 
mimal ſomething reſembling a lizard, that changes colour, as 
nd to look upon him, is ſound here as well as in other coun- 
The crocodile was formerly thought peculiar to this country: 
here does not ſeem to be any material difference between it, and 
ghoators of India and America. They are both amphibious - 
in the form of a lizard, and grow till they are about twen- 
in length, and have four ſhort. legs, with large feet armed 
daws, and their backs are covered with a kind of impenetrable 
\ like armour. The crocodile waits for his prey in the ſedge, 
ther cover, on the ſides of rivers, and pretty much reſembling 
muk of an old tree, ſometimes. ſurpriſes the unwary traveller 
his fore paws, or beats him down with bis tail, 
ks country produces likewiſe great numbers of | eagles, hawks, 
ns, and water-fowls of all kinds. The ibis; a creature (ac- 
by to Mr Norden) ſomewhat reſembling a duck, was deitied by 
wciznt Egyptians for its deſtroying ſerpents and peſtiferous in- 
They were thought to be peculiar to Egypt, but a ſpecies of 
s faid to have been lately diſcovered in other parts of Africa} 
hes are common here, and are fo ſtrong, that the Arabs ſome- 
nde upon their backs. | | n 


birants, Manners, Cuſtoms, and Diverſiant.] Egypt, at pre- 
s not near ſo populous as formerly, and its depopulation is ow- 
þ the inhabitants being ſlaves to the Turks. They are, bow- 
ſtill very numerous, but the populouſneſs of Cairo, as if it 
lined two millions, is a mere fiction. e 
ſte deſcendents of the original Egyptians, are an ill - looked fla» 
people, immerſed in indolence, and are diſtinguiſhed by the 
of Coptis; in their complexions they are rather ſun-burnt 
warthy, or black. Their anceſtors were once Chriſtians; and 
il they ſtill pretend to be of that religion, but Mahometa- 
$ the prevailing worſhip of Egypt. Thoſe who inhabit the 
and fields, at any conſiderable diſtance from the Nile, con- 
Arabs or their deſcendants, who are of a deep ſwarthy com- 
n, and they are repreſented by the beſt authorities, as retain- 
le patriarchal tending their flocks, and many of them without 
Jited place of abode. The Turks, who reſide in Egypt, retain 
tir Ottoman pride and inſolence, and the Turkiſh habit, to 
guſh themſelves from the Arabs and Coptis, who dreſs very 
their chief finery being an upper garment of white linen, and 
(awers, but their ordinary dreſs is of blue linen, with a long 
tat, either over or under it. The Chriſtians and Arabs of 
dener kind, content themſelves with a linen or woolen wrap» 
rich they fold, blanket: like, round their body, The Jews 
due leather flippers, the other natives of the country wear 
ud the foreign Chriſtians yellow. The dreſs of 'the women js 
7 and unbecoming, bat their clothes are ſilk when they can 
po. it, and ſuch of them as are not expoſed to the ſon, have de- 
*complexions and features. The Coptis in general are excellent 
Pt- ants, and many of them live by teaching the other natives 
. | | to 


I EET EESS ES FREY EP. 


„ E = 


| | 25 : 2” Way, +. if 7 8 
2». SS 8 mY 
| © Go'read and write. Their exerciſes" and Giverſions)ars/mn 
1 ſame as thoſe made uſe of in Perſia, and other Aſiatic dow 
All Egypt is over-ron with jugglers, fortune tellert, Mouse 
08 and travelling flight-of-hand men. 1 | 


Religion.] The bulk of the 'Mahometans are” enthirfis 
have among them their ſantos or fellows' who pretend to a fy 
degree of holineſs, and without any ceremony intrude into 
houſes,. where it would be dangerous to turn them out. The 
tian Turks mind religious affairs very little, and the Chriſtian 
which are here numerous, profeſs themſelves to be of the 
church, and enemies to that of Rome. In religious, and 
many civil matters, they are under the juriſdiction of the p 
of Alexandria, who by the dint of money generally purchales 
tection at the Ottoman court. * 


$ © Language,) The Coptic is the moſt ancient language of 1 

y This 9 by the Greek, about the — * 10 

Great; and that by the Arabic, upon the commeneement of 

lifate, when the Arabs diſpoſſeſſed the Greeks of Egypt. The 

bic, or Arabeſque, as it is -ealled, is fill the current languay 

the Coptic and modern Greek continue to be ſpoken. 

Curinſities and Antiquities.] Egypt abounds mere with thoſ 

perhaps any other part of the world, Its pyramids have bee 

deſcribed. Their antiquity is beyond the'reſearches of hiſtory 

and their original uſes are ſtill unknown. © The baſis of the! 

. covers eleven acres of ground, and its perpendicular height 

1 feet, but if meaſured obliquely to the terminating point, 70 

; It contains a room thirty-four feet long, and ſeventeen bro 

__ - which is a marhle cheſt, but without either cover or contents 

poſed to have been deſigned for the tomb of the founder.” In 

the pyramids of Egypt are the moſt ſtupendous, and, to appea 

the molt uſeleſs ſtructures that ever were raiſed by the hands « 

The mummy pits, fo called from their containing the mul 

or embalmed bodies of the ancient Egyptians, are fubterr 

vaults of a prodigious extent; but the art of preparing the 

6. mies is now loſt. It is ſaid that ſome of the bodies thus emi 

4 are perſect and diſtinct at this day, though buried 3000 years 

* The labyrinth is a curioſity thought to be more wonderful th 

pyramids themſelves, It is partly under ground, and cut ou 

marble rock, conſiſting of twelve palaces, and 1000 houſes, 
tricacies of which occaſion its nam. 


The ruſh papyrus, which grows upon the banks of the ea 
4 one of the natural curioſities of Egypt, and ſerved the ancient; 
3 write upon, but we know not the manner of preparing it. a 
1 of it is a nouriſhing food. The manner of hatching chicken tc; 


vens, is common in Egypt, and now praiſed in ſame parts 
rope. The conſtruction of the oven is very curious. 


Cities, 'Towns, and public Edifices.] In many places, no M 
temples, but the walls of cities, built before the time of Alen 


* 


at, are till entire, and many of their ornaments. no. 
Wi: colours of their paintings, are as freſh and vivid, as when | 


9 aria, which lyes on the Levant coaſt, was once the empo- 
u che world, and by means of the Red-ſea, furniſhed Bu- 
nd great part of Aſra, with the riches of India: It owes its 
its founder, Alexander the Great, It ſtands forty miles 
tom the Nile, and 120 North-Weſt of Cairo. It role upon 
as of Tyre and Carthage, and is famous for the light-houſe 
4 on the oppoſite "iſland of Pharos, for the direction of mari- 
lfervedly eſteemed one of the wonders of the world. All tha 
arts of the city were magnificent in proportich, as appears 
heir ruins, particularly the ciſterns and aqueducts. Many of 
terials of the old city, however, have been employed in build - 
ro Alexandria, which at preſent is a very ordinary ſeaport, 
by the name of Scanderoon, Notwithſtanding the poverty, 
zace, and indolence of the inhabitants, their moſques, bagm- 
ad the like buildings, erected within theſe ruins, preſerve an 
fible air of — Sos | 
tra, or Raſchid, ſtands 25 miles to the North-Weſt of Alex- 
„ and is recommended for its beautiful ſituation, and de- 
kl proſpects, which command the fine country, or ifland of 
, formed by the Nile, near its month. It is likewiſe a place of 
trade. 5 | | 
jo, the preſent capital of Egypt, is a large and populous, but 
greable reſidence, on account of its peſtilential air, and its 
w ſtreets. It is divided into two towns, the old, and the new, 
&ſended by an old caſtle, the works of which are ſaid to be 
miles in circumference, The well, called Joſeph's well, is a 
u piece of mechaniſm about ' 300 feet deep. The memory of 
atriarch is (till revered in Egypt, where they ſhew 1 
um other works of public utility, that go under his name. 
ue certainly of vaſt antiquity, but it is very queſtionable whe- 
bey were erected by him. One of his granaries is ſhewn in old 
\ but captain Norden ſuſpects it is a Saracen. work, nor does he 
any high idea of the buildings of the city itſelf, On the 
of the Nile, ſacing Cairo, Iyes the village of Gize, which is 
pit to be the ancient Memphis. The Chriſtians of Cairo prac- 
vo cheat, during the Eaſter holidays, by pretending that the 
ud bodies of the dead ariſe from their graves, to which they 
peaceably. The Rreets of Cairo are peſtered with the jug- 
ad fortune-tellers already mentioned. One of their favourite 
ons is their dancing camels, which, when young, they place 

Large heated floor: the intenſe heat makes the- poor crea- 
aper, and being plied all the time with the ſound of drums, 
ſe of that inſtrument ſets them a dancing all their lives after, 
other towns of note in Egypt are Damietta, ſuppoſed to be 
Kent Pelluſium; Bulac; Seyd, on the Welt bank of the Nile, 
ales South of Cairo, ſaid to be the ancient Egyptian Thebes, 
7 the few who have viſited it, it is reported to be one of the 
Uptal antique curioſities that is now extant. The general 
of ſtrangers, who viſit thoſe, places, is to hire a Nabe. 

icke | "." wio 


S « TS 5s > g 


- [ 


7 | 


mm 5 8 | EVE 
- N a il l 2 [ F 2 a 
. 
city, and gives name to the Iſthaus, that joins Africa with 


at Snee, from whence they ſend. them to Europe. Several 
| yew ſtates have conſuls reſident in Egypt, but the cuſtoms 


veſſels arrive yearly at Alexandria, ſome of which are laden 


interior parts of Egypt are almoſt inacceſſible to rangers, we 
little of their government and laws. It is generally agreed, 


their maſters ; they are ſometimes diſplaced by the Porte, upon 


* * * — = * a 7 n 
_ J * yy 
* 
3 


whole authority common ly prote&s them from the inſii 6 
ther natives. Suez, * a place of great trade, is now 


© Maniufultures and Commerce.) The Egyptians export prod 
quantities of unmanufactured as well as prepared flax, rhread 
ton, and leather of all forts, callicoes, yellow Wax, Alarm 
faffron, ſugar, ſenna, caſſia. They trade with the Arabs for 
drugs, fpices, callicoes, and other werchandizes, Which are 


rkith government are managed by Jews. A number of 


count of the owners, but moſt of them are hired and empl 
carriers to the Jews, Armenians, and Mahometan traders, ; 
tain Norden ſeems to think that the Engliſh conſul and mere 
make no great figure at Alexandria, but that they are in mud 
danger and leſs troubled than the French. 1 


Conſtitution and Government. ] Theſe ſeem to be but little xno 
modern times. It is certain that Egypt is ſubject to the Turk 
that even the meaneſt janiſary is reſpected by. the natives. Avi 
is ſent to Egypt, under the title of the paſha or baſhaw of ( 
and is one of the greateſt officers of the Ottoman empire; but 


the paſha is very careful how he-provokes the little princes, « 
ther heads of clans, who have parcelled out Egypt among 

ſelves, and whom he governs chiefly by playing one agaihſt 
ther. He has however a large regular army, and a militia,” \ 
ſerve as nurſeries from whence the Ottoman. troops are rec 
The keeping up this army employs his chief attention. It has 
times happened that thoſe paſhas have employed their arms ag 


a ESR BB MB Too. 2 


plaints from thoſe petty princes, f | 

A certain number of bays or begs, are appointed over the p 
ces of Egypt, under the paſha. Though theſe bays are deſign 
be checks upon him, yet they often aſſume independent power 
many of them have conſiderable revenues. 


Revenues.) Theſe are very inconſiderable, when compared tt 
natural riches of the country, and the deſpotiſm of its govern 
Some ſay that they amount to a million ſterling, but that two- 
of the whole is ſpent in the country. | 


Military Strength.] Authors are greatly divided on this a 
Captain Norden tells us, that it is divided into two corps of 
ries; and aſſafs are the chief, the former amounting to about | 
eight thouſand, and the latter to between three and four tho 
The other troops are of little account. 


Hiftery.] It is generally agreed, that the princes of the = 


| 1 6 Nr SR. 
u, ſat on the throne of Egypt, in · an uninterrupted ſucceſs 
I Cambyſes II. king of Perſia, conquered the Egyptians 320 
fore the birth of Chriſt 3 and that in the reign of theſe prin= _ 
ue wonderful ſtructures the pyramids were raiſed, which can» 
viewed without/aſtoniſhment. Egypt continned a part of the 
echpire, till Alexander the Great vanquiſhed Darius, when 
Linder the dominion of that prince, who ſoon after built the 
ed city of Alexandria. The conqueſts of Alexander being 
won by his generals, the province of Egypt fell to the ſhare” 
ny, by ſome ſuppoſed to have been a Ralf. brother of Alex- 
when it again became an independent kingdom, about 300 
before Chriſt. His ſucceſſors, who ſometimes extended their 
yon over great part of Syria, ever after retained the name of 
gies, and in that live Egypt continued between 2 and 300 
till the famous Cleopatra, the wife and ſiſter of Ptolemy Dio« 
b the laſt king, aſcended the throne. After the death of Cle - 
n who had been miſtreſs ſucceſſively to Julius Cæſar and Mark 
kay, Egypt became a Roman province, and thus remained till 
wen of Omer, the ſecond calif of the ſucceſſors of Mahomet, 
apelled the Romans, after it had been in their hands 200 
x The famous library of Alexandria, ſaid to conſiſt of 700,000 + 
s, was collected by Ptolemy Philadelphus, , fon of the firſt 
ay; and the ſame prince cauſed the Old Teſtament to be tran - 
Into Greek, but whether by 72 interpreters, and in the man- 
anmonly related, is juſtly queſtioned ; this tranſlation is known 
* name of the Septuagint, and is often quoted by commenta- 
About the time of the cruſades, between. the years 1150 and 
Egypt was governed by Noreddin, whoſe fon, the famous 
in, was ſo dreadful to thoſe Chriſtian adventurers, and retook 
them Jeruſalem, He inſtituted the military corps of Mama- 
z who, about the year 1242, advanced one of their own officers 
& throne, and ever after choſe their prince out of theit own bo- 
Leypt, for ſome time, made a figure under thoſe uſurpers, 
nde a noble ſtand againſt the Ry power of the Turks, 
r Selim, who, about the year 1517, after giving the Mama - 
s ſereral bloody defeats, reduced Egypt to its preſent ſtate of 
dion, - 
ule Selim was ſettling the government of Egypt, great num- 
(the ancient inhabitants withdrew into the deſarts and plains, 
tone Zinganeus, from whenee they attacked the cities and vil- 
ach the Nile, and plundered whatever fell in their way. Selim 
s officers perceiving that it would be a matter of great difh- 
u extirpate thoſe Marauders, left them at liberty to quit the 
, which they did in great numbers, and their poſterity is 
Lal! over Europe and Aſia, by the name of Gypſies. 


% 


4F THE 


— 
* 
1 
* 
44 q 
> 


© Tus STATES Of BARBARY, 


a - 


HE empire of Morocco, intluding Fes, is bounded. « 

1 North by the Mediterranean ſea ; on the South, by T 
and on the Eaſt, by Segelmeſſa and the kingdom of Algiert; 
zoo miles in length, and 480 in breadth. 2 
- Fez, which is now united. to Morocco, is about 125 m 
length, and much the ſame in breadth. It lyes between the 
dom of Algiers to the Eaſt, and Morocco on the South, and 
rounded on other parts by the ſea. 1 | 
- Algiers, formerly a kingdom, is bounded on the Eaſt 
kin — Tunis, on the North by the Mediterranean, on the 
by — Atlas, and on the Weſt by the kingdoms of Moroc 
Tafilet. According to Dr Shaw, who reſided twelve Years 
giers in quality of chaplain to the Britiſh factory, and hay cor 
many errors of ancient and modern geographers reſpecting the 
of Barbary, this country extends in length 480 miles alon 
coaſt of the Mediterranean, and is between 40 and 100 mi 
breadth. i | 
Tunis is bounded by the Mediterranean on the North and 
by the kingdom of Algiers on the Welt ; and by Tripoli, with 
of Biledulgerid, onthe South; being 220 miles in length from] 
to South, and 170 in breadth from Eaſt to Weſt. 
- Fripohi, including Barca, is bounded on the North by thi 
diterranean ſea z on the South by the eonntry of the Beriberie 
the Weſt by the kingdom of Tunis, Biledulgerid, and a-tera 
of the Gadamis; and on the Eaſt by Egypt; extending about e 
miles along the ſea · coaſt, and the breadth is from 100 to 300 

Each capital bears the name of the ſtate or kingdom to 
belongs. Ye > N 


PF, ET”, Nl ___ 


Air and Seaſonr.] The Air of Morocco is mild;/as is that 0 
giers, and indeed all the other ſtates, excepring in the mont 
July and Auguſt. 8 s 4 


Soil, Vegetable and Animal produttions, by Sea and Land.] 
ſtates, under the Roman empire, were juſtly "denominated tel: 
den of the world, and to have a refidence there was confider 
the higheſt Rage of luxury. Though the lands are now une 
ted, through the oppreſſion and barbarity of their conſtitution 
they are (till fertile, not only in corn, wine, and oil, but in 
figs, raiſins, almonds, apples, pears, cherries, plums, citront 
mens, oranges, pomegranates, with plenty of roots and bert 
their kitchen-gardens. Excellent hemp and flax grow on 
plains; and by the report of Europeans, who have lived ther 
ſome time, the country abounds with all that can add to the 


C 
A 
| 
21 
= 
Fl 
0 
+ 
* 
11 
2 
* 
7 
A 
Y 


* * PSY VO . a Ty 
A 


Ta stress BARBARY. 30 


A life ; for their great people find means to evade the ſobriety 
rbed by the Mahometan law, and make free” with excellent 
ud ſpirits of their own growth and manufacture. Algier 
ces falt-petre, and great quantities of excellent ſalt, and lead 
on have been found in ſeveral places of Barbary. 5 
iber the elephant nor the rhinoceros are to be found in the 
/of Barbary, but their defarts abound with lions, tigers, leo- 
þ, hyrnas, and monſtrous ſerpents. The Barbary horſes were 
ly very valuable, and thought equal to the Arabian. Though 
threed are now faid to be decayed, yet ſome very fine ones have 
phtely imported into England. Camels and dromedaries, aſſes, 
s and kumrahs, a moſt ſerviceable creature, begot by an aſs 
cow, are their beaſts of burden. Their cows are but ſmall, 
uren of milk. Their ſheep yield but indifferent fleeces, but 
wry large, as are their goats. Bears, porcupines, foxes, apes, 
« rabbits, ferrets, weaſels, moles, cameleons, and all kindes of 
ks, are found here. Partridges and quails, (eagles, hawks, 
il kinds of wild fowl, are found on this coaſt; and of the 
kr birds, the capſa · ſparrow is remarkable for its beauty; and 
eetneſs of its note, which is thought to exceed that of any o- 
bird, but it cannot live out of its own climate. The ſeas and 
of Barbary abound with the fineſt and moſt delicious ſiſh of 
kind, and were preferred by the ancients to thoſe of Europe. 


Webitants, Mauners, Cuſtoms, and Diverſions.) Morocco was for- 
far more populous than it is now, if, as travellers fay, its capt» 
antained 100,000 houſes, whereas at preſent, it is thought not 
pitain above 25,000 inhabitants. | 
ſte city of Algiers is ſaid to contain 100,000 Mahometans, 15,000 
and 2009 Chriſtian ſlaves; but no eſtimate can be formed as 
populouſneſs of its territory. Some travellers report, that it 
labited by a friendly hoſpitable people, who are very different 
tir manners and character from thoſe of the metropolis, 
ſuis is the moſt poliſhed republic of all the Barbary ſtates. The 
ul contains 10,000 families, above 3000 tradeſmens fhops, and 
hubs conſiſt of 1000 houſes, Their diſtinctions are well kept 
nd proper reſpe& is paid to the military, mercantile, and learn- 
mfeſlions. They cultivate friendſhip with the European Rates 3 
nd manuſactures have been lately introduced among them, and 
nabitants are ſaid at preſent to be well acquainted with the 
5 |abours of the loom. The Tunifine women are exceflively 
Wome in their perſons, and though the men are ſun-burnt, the 
Flexion of the ladies is very delicate, nor are they leſs neat and 
Wit in their dreſs; but they improve the beauty of their eyes by 
farticularly the powder of lead-ore. The gentlemen in general 
Wer, orderly, and clean in their perſons, their behaviour gen- 
nd complaiſant, and a wonderful regularity reigris through all 
Een. and city. 4 * 
"cli was once the richeſt, moſt populous, and opulent of all the 
n on the coalt ; but it is now much reduced, and the inhabitants, 
re ſaid to amount to between 4 and 509,000, have all the vices 
& Alperines, 


4 F 3 | : Their 


aa 
1 1. \ 
L 


9856 5 Tex SrArzs or BARBARY 


Their manners are pretty much of a piece with thoſe of 

ptians. The ſubjects of the Barbary ſtates, however, in 

lubſiſting by piracy, are allowed to he bold intrepid marine! 

will fight deſperately when they meet with a prize at ſea," Ty 

notwithſtanding far inferior to the Engliſh, and other E 

ſtates, both in the conſtruction and management of their 

They are, if we except the Tuniſines, yoid of all arts and lite 

The miſery and poverty of the inhabitants of Morocco, who 

immediately in the emperor's ſervice, are beyond all defer 

but thoſe who inhabit the inland parts of the country, are a hoſe 

|  inoffenſive people; and indeed it is a general obſervation, 

more diſtant the of thoſe ſtates inhabitants are from- the ſeats « 

vernment, their manners are the more pure, Notwithſtandin 

Poverty, they have a livelineſs about them, (eſpecially thoſe 

of Arabic deſcent, that gives the man air of contentment, and 

nothing to. loſe, they are peaceable among'themſelyes.- The 

are ſuppoſed to be the original inhabitants, but are now þ 

with the Arabs, and both are : cruelly oppreſſed by a han 

_— domineering Turks, the refuſe of the Greets of Ci 
tinople. 6 0 | +4 66%3.224 | 


Dre. ] The drefs of theſe people is a linen ſhirt, over 
they tye a ſilk or cloth veſtment with aiſaſb, and over that 
coat. Their drawers are made of linen. The arms and legs 
wearer are bare, but they have flippers on their feet 3 and 
of condition ſometimes wear buſkins. They never move the 
bans, but pull off their ſlippers when. they attend religious ON 
or the perſon of their ſovereign. They are fond of Rippe 
fancied filks. The dreſs of the women is not very differen 
that of the men, but their drawers are longer, and they wear 
of a cawl on their heads inſtead of a turban. The chief furnit 
their houſes conſiſts of carpets and matreſſes, on which they 
Tye. In eating, their ſlovenlineſs is ſhocking» They are prot 
old and filver veſſels ; and their meat, which they ſwallow by 
fal, is boiled or roaſted to rags. Adultery in the women is p 
ed with death; but though the men are indulged with a piurz 
wives and concubines, they commit the moſt unnatural crim 
impunity. —_ | | 


Religion.] The inhabitants of thoſe ates are Mahometans 
many ſubjects of Morocco follow the tenets of one Hamed, 
dern ſectariſt, and an enemy to the ancient doctrine of the 
All of them are very fond of ideots, and in ſome caſes their p 
ion ſcreens offenders from puniſhment, for the moſt notorious 
To the main, however, the Moors of Barbary, as the inhabit 
thoſe ſtates are now promiſcuouſly called, haye adopted tl 
worſt parts of the Mahometan religion, and ſeem to have ret 
only as much of it as authorizes them to commit the moſh 
villanies. bot oe CBE. OR 


Zanguage.] As the ſtates of Barbary poſſeſs thoſe countr 
formerly went by the name of Mauritania and Numidia, the at 


* 


Ter STarzs or BARBARY, ' 397 
n language is ill ſpokeñ in ſome of the-inland countries, and 
by ſome inhabitants of the city of Morocco. In the ſea · port 0 
and maritime countries, 2 baſtard kind of Arabic is ſpoken, 

wfaring people are no ſtrangers to that medley of living and | l 
anguages, that is fo well known in all the ports of the Medi- * | 

„ by the name of Lingua Fran eg. | | 


$ 


+ 


; $4 4 | "OF? 
Iiir and Curioſities. ] Some remains of the Mauritanian and 
diar greatneſs are ſtill to be met with, and many ruins which 
nidences of their ancient grandeur and populouſneſs. Theſe 
dut the old Julia Cæſarea of the Romans, which was little in · 


's 0 in magnificence to Carthage itſelf. A few of the aqueduRs of, 
din huge are ſaid to be ſtill remaining, but no veſtige of its walls. 
* ame is the fate of Utica, and many other renowned eities of 
ad ity; and ſo over-run is the country with barbariſm, that their 


kites are not known, even by their ruins, amphitheatres, and 
public buildings which remain ſtill in tolerable preſervation. 
ks thoſe of claſſical antiquity, many Saracen monuments of the 
lupendous magniticence are likewiſe: found in this vaſt tract 
We vere erected under the califs of Bagdat, and the ancient kings 
Wk: country, before it was ſubdued by the Turks, or reduced to 
eat form of government. Their walls form the principal for- 
wioas of the country, both inland and maritime, Few or no 
nl curioſities belong to this country, excepting its ſalt · pits, 
in ſome places take up an area of fix miles. Springs are found 2 
hat are ſo hot as to boil a large piece of mutton very tender in | 
mer of an hour. 


is and Public buildings.) Morocco, the capital of that kingdom, 
ww almoſt in ruins, the court having removed to Mequinez, a 
of Fez. Incredible things are recorded of the magnificent pa- 
zin both cities, but by the beſt accounts, the common people 
na dirty ſlovenly manner. 

city of Algiers, is not above a mile and a half in circuit, 
Nit is computed to contain near 120, ooo inhabitants, 1 5,000 

ks, and 107 moſques. Their public baths are large, and hand- 
1 paved with marble. The proſpect of the country and ſea from | | 
r is very beautiful; but the city, though for ſeveral ages it | 
raved the greateſt powers iv Chriſtendom, could make but a 1 
defence againſt a regular ſiege; and three Engliſh 50 gun q | 
night batter it about the ears of its inhabitants from the har- ; 


t lingdom of Tunis, which is naturally the fineſt of all theſe 
contains the remains of many noble cities, ſome of them ſtill 
pod condition. The town itſelf has fortifications, and is about 
ales in circumference. The houſes are not magnificent, but 
ud commodious; as is the public exchange for merchants 
bei goods; but, like Algiers, it is diſtreſſed for want of freſh 


city of Tripoli conſiſts of an old and new town, the latter 
de moſt flouriſhing ; but never can make any conſiderable fi- 


on account of the inconveniencies attending its ſituation, par- 
FOE * ticularly 


- & 13 
: = F N 
E. 
* 
= 
\ 


> oo8  - Tar'STarrs or BARBARY, 
ticularly the want of ſweet- water. The city of Oran, hing 
. this coaſt, is about a mile in circumſerene, and is fortified & 
art and nature. It was a place of conſiderable trade, and 
Ject of many bloody diſputes between the Spaniards and the 
Conſtantina was the ancient Cirta, and one of the ſtrongeſt e 
Numidia, being inacceſſible on all ſides, excepting the South- 
Beſides the above towns and cities, many other, formerly o 
' renown, lye ſcattered up and down this immenſe tract of ce 
The city of Fez, at preſent the capital of that kingdom, is iu 
to contain near 300,000 inhabitants, befide merchants and & 
ers Its moſques amount to 500, one of them magniticent þ 
defeription, and about a mile and a half in circumference; 1 
nene n eſteemed the great emporium of all Barbary. Gall 
formerly famous for the piracies of its inhabitants. Tangier, 
ted about two miles within the ſtraits of Gibralter, was gi 
the crown of Portugal as part of the dowry of queen Catl 
confort of Charles II. of England. It was intended to be 
Engliſh what Gibralter is now; and it muſt have been a mo 
acquiſition, had not the miſunderſtandings between the king 
liament obliged him to blow up its fortifications, and demo 
bour ; ſo that from being ene of the fineſt cities in Atricz 
gow little better than a filhing town. Ceuta, /upon the ſame 
almoſt oppoſite to Gibraker, is ili in the hands of the Spat 
but often, if not always befieged or blocked up by the 
Tetuan, which lyes within twenty miles of Ceuta, is now 
ordinary town, containing about 800 houſes; but the inhal 
are faid to be rich, extremely complaiſant, and they live in 
gant manner. h N25 
_ The provinces of Suz, Tafilet, and Geſula, form no part 
Rates of Barbary, though the king of Morocco pretends to be 
ſovereign ; nor do they contain any thing that is particula 
* rious. - A , 
> | 
Mannfatures and Commerce ] The lower ſubjects of thoſe 
know very few imaginary wants, and depend partly upon th 
racies, to be ſupplied with neceſſary utenfils and manufactu 
that their exports conſiſt chicfly of leather, fine mats, emorogy 
bandkerchiefs, ſword-knots and carpets, | which are cheape 
fofter than thoſe of Turkey, though not fo good in other te 
As they leave almoſt all their commercial Affairs to the Je 
Chriſtians ſettled among them, the latter have eſtabliſhed 1 
Hnen works, which ſupply the higher ranks of their own fu In 
They have no ſhips that, properly ſpeaking, are employed in 
merce; fo that the French and Englith carry on the greatel 
of their trade. Their exports, beſides thoſe already mentionee 
fiſt in elephants teeth, oſtrich feathers, copper, tin, wook 
honey, war, dates, raiſins, almonds, gum, arabic, and fat 
The inhabitants of Morocco are likewiſe ſaid to carry on 2 c 
able trade by caravans to Mecca, Medina, and ſome inland p 
Africa, from whence they bring back vaſt numbers of negroeay 
| ſerve in their armies, and are ſlaves in their houſes and helds. 
In return for their exports, the Europeans ſurniſh them wit 


1 


— * 
* '% * 1 * 
C - , 


Tus SrArrs or BARBARY. ww 
Jlery of all kinds, - gunpowder, and whatever they want, | 
« their public or private capacities, the particulars of which | 


; many to ſpecify: The duties paid by the Engliſh in the ports 
. eco, are but half thoſe paid by other Europeans. lt is a 
* | obſervation, that no nation is fond of trading with theſe ſtates, 
on aceount of their capricious deſpotiſm, but the villany t 


adividuals, both natives aud Jews, who take all op 
ning, and when detected, are ſeldom puniſhec. 


ution and Government.) In Morocco, government cannot be 
eat. The emperors have for ſome ages been parties, judges, 
n executioners, with their own hands, in all criminal, mat- 
or is their brutality more incredible than the ſubmiſſion with 
their ſubjects bear it. In abſence of the emperor every mili- 
cer has che power of life and death in his hand, and it is 
that they mind the form of a judicial proceeding. Some 
ps, however, of the califate government ſtill continue, for in 
 rhere no military officer reſides, the mutti or high prieſt is 
an of all juſtice, and under him the cadis, or civil officers, 
mes our juſtices of the peace. Though the emperor of Mo- 
rot immediately ſubject to the Porte, yet he acknowledges - 
me and ſignior to be his ſuperior, and he pays him a diſtant al- 
en the chief repreſentative of Mahomet. | | 
mh Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, have each of them a Turk- 
u or dey, who governs in the name of the grand ſignior, 
ij little regard is paid to his authority. He cannot even be 
be nominated by the Porte. When a vacancy of the govern- 
happens, which it commonly does by murder, every foldier in 
ay has a vote in chuſing the ſucceeding dey ; and though the 
is oſten attended with bloodſhed, yet it is no fooner fixed 
te is cheartully recognized and obeyed. It is true, he muſt 
rmcd by the Porte, but that is ſeldom refuſed, as the divan 
iranger to the diſpoſitions of the people. The power of the 
$de{potic, and the income of the dey of*Algiers, amounts to 
50,0001, a-year, without greatly oppreſſing the ſubjects, who 
Wy") tenacious of their property, Theſe deys pay flight annual 
ron to the Porte. When the grand fiynior is at war with a 
= un power, he requires their aſſiſtance, as he does that of the 
te Morocco, but he is obeyed only as they think proper Sub- 
Ute to the deys are officers, both military and civil; and in all 
5 of importance, the dey is expected to take the advice of a |, 
1 fu ſn council, which conſiſts of zo pathas. Theſe paſhas ſeldom 
auß forming parties, among the ſoldiers, againſt the reigning oy 
ate they make no ſcruple of aſſaſſinating, even in council, an 
neo" candidate then fills his place. Sometimes he is depoſed ; 
, tho' but very ſeldom, he reſigus his authority to ſave his 
ud it is ſeldom he dies a natural death upon the throne. The 
60 of the dey is unlimited, but an unſucceſsful expedition, or 


| dite a conduct, ſeldom fails to put an end to his life and go- 
roe it, | 


vill.) They confilt of a certain proportion of the prizes taken 


' G0 Tir res or BARBANY 


* 
Ls N — 
_ * 


\ * 5 5 tk RN a 1 * 

. s e 4 By , * a 1 4 
* : Ts e ah! + 
/ 7 


| from Chriſtians, a ſmall capitation tax, and the/culidms paid 
Engliſh," French, and other nations, who are ſuffered to trad 
thoſertates. As to the king of Morocco, we can form n6 
his revenues, becauſe none of his ſubjects can be faid to poll 
property. From the manner of his living, his atteridanes 3 
pearance, we may conelnde he does not a din tiches, T 
ſoms of Chriſtian ſlaves are his perquiſites. He fometimes 
the veſſels of the other ſtates, which entitles him to part « 
prizes. He claims a tenth of the goods of his Mahometan f 
and ſix crowns a · year from every Jew merchant, He has 
conſiderable profits in the Negroland, and other caravans; eff 
the ſlave trade towards the South. It is thought that the wi 
his ordinary revenue in money, does not exceed 165,006 l. 4. 


. Military ſtrength at Sea and Land.) By the beſt accounts 
received, the king of Morocco can bring to the feld 100000 
but the ſtrength of his army conſiſts of cavalry mounted by 1 
groe ſlaves. Thoſe wretches are brought young to Morocco, 
no other ſtate but ſervitude, and no other maſter but that king 
prove the firmeſt ſupport of his tyranny. Abont the year 7 
the naval force of Morocco conſiſted only of three ſmall ſhips,, 
lay at Sallee, and being full of men, ſometimes brought in 
The Algerines maintain about 6500 foot; conſiſting of Turk 
cologlies, or the ſons of ſoldiers. Part of them ſerve as mari 
board their veſſels. About 1000 of them do garriſon-duty, ar 
are employed in fomenting differences among the neighbours 
rab princes. Beſides theſe, the dey can 2 ooriſly 
to the field, but as they are enemies to the Turks, they 
truſted. Thoſe troops are under excellent diſcipline, and the 
all the other Barbary ſtates keep up a force in proportion tc 
abilities, ſo that a few years ago, they refuſed to ſend any trit 
the Turkiſh emperor, who ſeems to be ſatisfied with the na 
obedience which they pay him. . Coo 


Hiſtory.) There perhaps is no problem in hiſtory ſo unaccot 
as the decadence of the ſplendor, power, and glory of the f 
Barbary, which, when Rome was miſtreſs of the world, form 
faireſt, jewels in the imperial diadem. It was not till the 
century that, after theſe ſtates had been by turns in poſſeſſion 
Vandals and the Greek emperors, the califs or” Saracens of I 
conquered them, and from thence became maſters of almoſt all 
from whence their poſterity was totally driven about the year 
when the exilcs ſettled among their friends and countrymeny 
| Barbary coaſt. This begot a perpetual war between them al 
Spaniards, who preſſed them fo hard, that they called to thei 
tance the two famous brothers Barbaroſſa, Who were ada 
the Turkiſh fleet, and who after breaking the Spaniſh yoke, 
upon the inhabitants of all thofe ſtates (excepting Morocco 
own. Some attempts were made by the emperor Charles V. 
duce Algiers and Tunis, but they were unſucceſsful z and the 
bitants have in fa& ſhaken off the Turkiſh yoke likewiſe. 

The emperors or kings of Morocco, are che ſurceſſors 


„* r * 
© th „ 
; of . 4 1 5 1 * 
3 'Y 
o 8 N „ , — 


or de SLAVE cos T. e. Got 


jy of that country who. were called zeriffs, and whoſe powers 
that of the califat of the Saracens, - They have been in 
| i of bloody tyrants, though they have had among them 


lon Sebaſtian, king of Portugal. They have lived in almoſt a 
} tate of warfare with the kings of. | Spain #nd.ocder-Chrin 


I 


wi rn to rags 461% + 2 A PEDED 
64 207 * * 1 2&7 e? 
| Þ immenſe territhey'" is little WEIR there is no Kanne 


kat has penetrated into the interior parts, ſo that we are 1 
r only of the bounds, but even of che names of ſeveral? and 


continent agree with each other; If we 9 
nia, who are tawny, and profeſs a mixture of Chri 18 


, except on the ſea- coaſts, which have been viſited and 
trangers, they are 7 72 and the form of goverument is 
where monarchigal. Few princes, however, poſſeſs 'a very 
juriſdiction; for as the natives of this part of Africa are 
ignorant in all the arts of utility or refinement, they are little 
ited with one another ; and generally united in ſmall focie- 
ach governed by its own prince. In the-fuccefſion to the 
force generally prevails over right; and an uncle, a brother,” 
collateral relation, is on this account commonly preferred 
leſcendents, whether male or female. 

lrtility of a country ſo prodigiouſly extenſive, might be ſup- 


Imre various than we find it is; in fact, there is no medium in 
i the ſun, which, -where it meets with ſufficient moiſture, pro- 


xe the countries of Anian and Zaara, which, for want of 
nd conſequently of all other neceſſaries, are reduced to per · 
as, as the name of the latter denotes. In thoſe countries, 
her hand, where there is- plenty of water, and particularly 


Wftions of nature, both of the animal and vegetable kinds, 
Lin the higheſt perfection and greateft ahundance. The 
a of — Ethiopia, 178 Werbe, PO Ko" 


Re 


| 


* and Paganiſm, they are all of a black complexion : int wi | 


ble princes, particularly Muley Moluc, who defeated and | 


ines ever ſince; nor does the crown. of Great Britain ſome» 
bidain, as in the year 4769, to purchaſe their friendibip with: | 


WRICA, from the Tropic of Cancer to the Cape 


In many material circumſtances,” the * of — 


of Africa with regard to the advantages of ſoil z-it is either 
Y barren, or extremely fertile : this ariſes from the intenſe. 


ite utmoſt lJuxyriancy z and in thoſe countries where there are 
fs, reduces the furface of the earth to a barren ſand. ' Of 


ite rivers overflow the land of the year, as in Abyſlinia; 


11 
i! 
1 
i 
1 
| 

| 


—— ——ů j — — — — 


= * — 


mong the oes, a man's wealth conſiſts in the number of 


. 
% 


% 


and ſilver. The baſer metals likewiſe aus Sund in df > 


Where they 'exchan 


- | the 
coaſt, where the Dutch and French, as well as Engliſh, have 


_ , Equator; which immenſe tract they became maſters 0 by thei 


A 44 9 _ * 3 n * 6 
% . | i. * | * i . a * 
— rn 
* = 


e AFRICAN YSLANDS 
Cafati, Mehenemugi, are; | 


* 


other parts of Africa · But the perſons of the natives make the 
confiderable article in the produce and traffic of this miſerakie? 

ter of the globe. On the Guinea ort Weſtern call i 
trade to James Fort, and- other ſettlements near the river GJ 
| their woollen and linen manufactures, 
hard ware and ſpiritous liquors, for the perſont of the natives 


mily, whom he ſells like ſo many cattle, and often at an 
ice.” Gold and ivory, next to the ſlave trade, form the pri 


of African commerce.- 


ſettlements for this purpoſe. The Portugneze are in poſſeſon 
and Weſt coaſts of Africa, from the Tropic of Capricorn 


ceſſive attempts, and happy diſcovery and navigation of the C 
Good Hope. From the coaſt of Zanguebar, on the Faller 
they trade not only for the articles above-mentioned, but | 
for f others, as ſenna, aloes, civet, ambergris, and f 
cer he Dutch have ſettlements towards the Southern pl 


continent, in the country called Caffratig, or the land 
ttentots, where their ſhips bound for India uſually pat is 

trade with the natives for their cattle, in gxchange for whic 

ive them ſpiritaus liquors. 


Hillen. The biſtory of this continent is little known, and 
ly, affords no materials which deſerve to render it more 0. 
zow from the ancients, who ſailed a conſiderable way rout 

coalts, that the inhabitants were in the ſame xnde ſituation nea 

years ago in which they are at. preſent, that ig, they bad af 
of humanity about them but the ſorm : and it is very .certainyt 
the attempts of the Europeans, particularly of che Dutch. atthd 

of Good- Hope, have been hitherto, ineffeQual for * 

impreſſion on theſe ſavage mortals, or giving them the lealt ul 

tion, or even idea of the European manner of life. 

1 . A +. „ BY 


8 " 0 , ; . _ © — 
* 3 ' "4 4 4 : , & - 


AFRICAN: ISLANDS 
CNEF-the African iflands, ſome lye in the Eaſtern or Jodianl 
and ſome in the Weſtern or Atlantic. The: chief f d 
the Indian ocean, are Zocotra, Babelmandel, Madagaſcan, 
mora iſlands, Bourbon and Mauritius. f f 


-.ZOCOTRA. This iſland is ſituated in Eaſt longitude 5% 
latitude 12, zo leagues Eaſt. of Cape Guardafui, onthe cont 


VS X 


AFRICAN ISLANDS. ben 
; it is 80 miles long, and 54 broad, and has two good har - 
It is a populous plentiſul country, yielding moſt of the fruits 
ants that are uſually found within the tropics, together with 
acenſe, gum-tragrcanthiy and aloes. The inhabitants are Ma- 
uns, of Arab extraction, and are under the government of z 
ho is probably tributary to the Porte. 


23,4 „ae ; Xr „enn 
WBELMANDEL: » The land of Babelmandel gives name 40 
baits at the entrance of the + Red+ Sea, where it is ſituated in 
ongitude 44<30zs North latitude 1 25 about four miles both | 

Arabian and Abyſſinian ſhores. The Abyſſinians or Ethi- 
; and the Arabians, formerly eontended with great fury for 
pſeſßon of this iſland, , as it commands the entrance into the 
Sea, and preſerves a communication with the ocean. This 
as formerly the only paſſage through which the commodities 
ia found their way to Europe; but ſince the diſcovery of the 
of Good- Hope, the trade by the Red - Sea is of little import · 
The ifland is of little value, being à barren ſandy ſpot of 
pot five miles | 8. 38 VS NSD” 


| QA 2 DOT vu: N M6 VCO 
DORA. Theſe iſlands are ſituated between 41 and 46 Eaſt 
ade, and between 10 and 14 South latitude, at an equal dif 
from Madagaſcar and the continent of Africa. Joanna, the 
is about 30 miles long, and 15 broad, and affords plenty of 
ions, and ſuch fruits as are produced between the tropics. 
ladia ſhips, bound to Bombay, uſually touch here for refreſh» 
Ide inhabitants are Negroes of the Mahometan perſuaſion, 
nertain our ſeamen with great humanit̃ xy. 


0 aner 5 TY 41k il 4 
IDAGASCAR. This is the largeſt of the African iſlands, 
s ſituated between 43 and 51 degrees Eaſt longitude and be- 
Io and 26 South latitude, 300 miles South · Eaſt of the conti · 
Africa; it being near 1000 miles in length from North to 
„nud generally between 2 and 300 miles broad. The ſea rolle 

neat rapidity, and is exceeding rough between this iſland and 
mtinent of the Cape of Good-Hope, forming a channel or paſ- 
rough which all European ſhips, in their voyage to and 
hdia, generally fail, unleſs prevented by. forms. 
Mapaſcar is a pleaſant, deſirable, and fertile country, abound - 
d ſugar, honey, vines, fruit · trees, es, valuable gums, 
attle, fowls, precious ſtones, iron, ſome ſilver, copper, ſteel, 
in. It affords an agreeable variety of hills, vallies, woods, 
tanpaign ; watered with numerous rivers, and well ſtored: 
il, The air is generally temperate, and ſaid to be very heal-- 
tough in a hot climate. The inhabitants are of different com- 
is and religions; ſome white, ſome Negroes, ſome: Mahome- 
Pagans, This ifland was diſcovered by the Portugneze, 
le French took poſſeſſion of it in 1642 3 but the people diſſi- 
fir government, they were driven out in 1651 ; ſince which 
Wives have had the ſole poſſeſſion of tlie ifland, under a num- 
betty princes, who make war pon one another for ſlaves and 


4 G 2 MAUs 


MAURICIUS. Maurice, or Mauritius, 'was-fo"callsg-1 
Dutch, who firſt touched here in 198, in honour of prince 


* 


1 v : * — — - , 4 RN : 
N © * a 1 


1  ATRICAN TSA 


rice their ſtadtholder. It is ſizuated in Eaſt longitude $6, G. 
titude 20, about 400 miles Eaſt of Madagaſcar. It is of «; 
Form, about 150 miles in circumference,” with a fine harbour, 
ble of holding $50 large ſhips, ſecure againſt any wind that 
and 100 deep at the entrance. The climate is ext 
healthy and pleaſant. The mountains, of which thert are 
and ſome ſo high that their tops are covered-with ſnow; "prod 
| beſt ebony in the world, beſides various" other kinds of u. 
wood, two of which greatly reſemble ebony in quality; or 
the other yellow as wax. The iſland is watered with feve 
ſant rivers well ſtocked with fiſh; and though the foil is none 
moſt fruitful, yields plenty of tobacco, rice; ſruit, and feeds ; 
number of cattle, deer goats, and ſheep. ''- It was formerly i 
to the Dutch, but is now in the poſſeſſion" of the French. 


- BOURBON. The iſle of Bourbon is ſituated in Eaſt longity 
South latitude 21, about 300 miles Eaſt of Madagaſcar, an 
bout 90 miles round. There are many good roads for thi 
round Bourbon, particularly on the North: and South" fides 
hardly a ſingle harbour ſhips can ride ſecure againſt 
hurricanes which blow during the Monſoons. Indeed the coal 
ſurrounded with blind recks, ſunk a few feet below the water 
coaſting along ſhore is at all times dangerous. On che Sor 
_ extremity is a volcano, which continually throws out flames; f 
and ſulphur, with a hideous roaring noiſe. The climate here 
extremely hot, is healthy, being refreſhed with cooling gale 
blow morning and evening from the ſea and-land : ſometimes; 
ever, terrible hurricanes ſhake the whole iſland almoſt to itsf 
tion; but generally without any other bad conſequence than i 
ening the inhabitants. The iſland abounds in brooks and ff 
and in fruits, s, and cattle, with excellent tobacco (whit 
French have ted * white pepper, ebony, 'paln 
other kinds of wood, it-trees. Many of the trees ieh 
riſerous gums and raiſins, particularly benzoin of an exceiler 
in great plenty. The rivers are well ſtocked with fiſh, dhe cht 
land and ſea tortoiſes, and every part of the country WIA 
cattle, as well as hogs and goats. Ambergris, coral, and the 
beautiful ſhells, are found upon the ſhore. | The woods ares 
' turtle-doyes,. paroquets, pigeons, and a great variety of other 
beautiful to the eye, and pleaſant to the palate. The re 
ſettled here in the year 1672, after they were drove from e 
of Madagaſcar. They have now ſome - conſiderable towns 
iſland, with a governor ; and here their Eaſt India {ups N 
take in refreſhments. | | io 
There are a great many more ſmall iſlands about Ma 
and on the Eaſtern coaſt of Africa, laid down in maps, 0 
| deſcribed. „ | . 3.25 
The iſlands in the Atlantic ocean, upon the Afrienm et 
St Helena, Aſcenſion, St Matthew, St Thomas, &c. Garth 
Verd, the Canary and Madeira iſlands, - 
| * 


x: 
A 


* 
- 
* 
. * 


= : \ P = 
* . * — 
” : , | 


ATRICAN ISLANDS. 66 

= ENA is ſituated in Weſt longitude 6-4, South latitude 

| — miles Weſt of the continent of Africa, and 1800 
both America. The iſland is a rock about 21 miles in cir- 
ce, very high and very ſeep, and only acceſſible at the 
iz place, in a ſcnall valley at the Eaſt fide of it, which is de- 
d by — o — planted 828 the water; _— the 

4 are tu daſhing. on it is generally difficult 
War: gow There * other anchorage about the iſland 

x Chapel Valley Bay; and as the wind always blows from the 

1 Eaſt, if a ſhip overſhoots the iſland ever fo little, ſhe cannot 

r it again. The Engliſh-plantations here afford potatoes and 
with figs, plantains, bananas, grapes, kidney beans, and In- 
corn; of the laſt, however, moſt part is deſtroyed by rats, 

4 harbour in the rocks, and cannot be deſtroyed ; ſo that the 

x they uſe is almoſt wholly imported from England ; and in 
of ſcarcity they generally eat yams and potatoes inſtead of 
Though the iſland appears on every fide a hard barren rock, 

| is agreeably diverſified with hills and plains,” adorned with 
tions of fruit-trees and EE They have great p 

os, bullocks, poultry, dacks, geeſe, and turkeys, with whi 
upply the ſailors, taking in exchange ſhirts, drawers, or any 
cloths, pieces of callico, ſilks, muſlins, arracks, ſugar, &c. 
Helena is ſaid to have been firſt diſcovered by the | 

be feſtival of the empreſs Helena, mother of the emperor Con- 
Ine the Great, whoſe name it ſtill bears. It does not appear 
the Portugueze ever planted. a colony here: and the Engliſh 
lndia company took poſſeſſion of it in 2600, and held it with- 
merruption till the year 1673, when the Dutch took it by ſur- 
However, the Engliſh, under the command of captain Mun+> 
recovered it again within the-ſpace of a year, and at the ſame 
took three Dutch Eaſt-India ſhips that lay in the road. There 
bout 200 families in the Iſland, moſt of them deſcended 
Engliſh parents. The Eaſt-India ſhips take in water and freſh 
lions here in their way home ; but the iſland is fo ſmall, and 
1 2 00 

it then. | | 

company's affairs are here managed by a governor, deputy - 
mor, and ſtore · keeper, who have ſtanding ſallaries allowed 
lie company, beſides a public table well farniſhed, to which all 
nders, maſters of ſhips, and principal paſſengers are wel · 


= 
4 
. 
2 


43 | 

4 
E | | 

| 

' 


* 


* 


SCENSION. This iſland is fi in 7 degrees 40 minutes 
d latitude, 600 miles North-Weſt of St Helena: it received its 
from its being diſcovered by the Portugueze on Aſcenſion - day: 
$2 mountainous barren iſland, about 20 miles round, and un- 

ed ; but has a ſafe convenient harbour, where the Eaſi- India 
| generally touch to furniſh themſelves with turtles or tortoiſes, 
d are very plentiful here, and vaſtly large, ſome of them weigh- 
| dove 100 pounds each. — * 


MATTHEW, This is a wall d. lying in 6-1 Welk long 


— 
— 


e  AAFRACAN AS 

tude, and 1-30 South latitude, 300 miles on the Worth Fat: 
| cenſion, and was alſo diſcovered by the Portuguese, — 
aland kept poſſeſſon of it for fore time but afterwards dot 
3 tmis iſland now remains uninhabited; ing little to iny 
5 nations to ſettle there except a ſmall lake of ſreſh mater. 


abn. „ enn 10 

The four: following iſlands, via. $7 THOMAS,. ANA 
PRINCESS ISLAND, and FERNANDO O, ace ſituated 
ns Guinea, between Congo and Benin all of them we 
. a by the Portugueze; and are ſtill in the polleſſion c 
— and furniſh ſhipping with treth water and proviſions 


y __ ». CAPE VERD ISLANDS. Theſe, iflands dre fo called 
cape of that name on the African coaſt, near the river Gam 
vera · gainſt which they lye, at the diſtance of 300 milena, betw 
and 26 degrees Weſt longitude, and 14 and ig degrees Nor 
tude. They were diſcovered in the year 2460 by the Porzug 
3 and are about 20 in number; but ſome of them, being only 
. nninhabited rocks, are not worth notice St. Jago, 2 
| Mayo, Bonaviſta, Sal, St Nicholas, 8t Lucie It Vincent, 
Cruz, and St Antonia, are the moſt conſiderable and are u 
the Portugueze. The air, generally ſpeaking; is very hot, 
ſome of them very unwholeſome: They are inhabited by 
or the deſcendents of Europeans, and Negros. 
_ 8t Jago, where the Portugueze viceroy refides; ig the mail 
ful, beſt inhabited, and largeſt of them all, being 460 miles 
cumference; yet it is mountainous, and has much barten dad 
Its produce is ſugar, cotton, ſome wine, Indian corn, cn 
oranges, and other tropical fruits; plenty of roots; | 
and they have plenty of hogs and poultry, and ſome of ch 
een monkies, with black faces, that are to be met with any 
Baya, fituated on the Eaſt fide, has a good port, and is ſeldom 
1 odut ſhips, thoſe outward bound to Guinea or the Eaſt Indies, 
= England, Holland, and France, often touching here for wate 
3F refreſhments. | an $4 
In the iſland of Mayo vr May, immenſe quantities of faltss 
by the heat of the ſun from the fea-water, which at ſpring 
js received into a ſort of pan, formed by a -ſand+bank; which 
along the coaſt for; two or three miles. | Here-the:Enghillvd 
conſiderable trade for falt, and have commonly a man of 1 
guard the veſſels that come to load with it, which in ſome 
mount to an hundred or more. The ſalt coſts' nothing, exeq 
raking it together, wheeling it out of the pond,” and carrying 
aſſes to the boats, which is done at a very cheap rate 
our ſhips come hither for a freight of aſſes, which they carry 10 
badoes and other Britiſh plantations. The inhabitants of thisw 
even the governor and prieſts, are all Negroes, and {peaks 
tugueze language. The Negro governor expects a ſmall f 
from every commander that loads ſalt, and is pleaſed-to be 
aboard their ſhips. The ſea - water is ſo exceſſive clear on this © 


chat an Engliſh ſailor who dropped his watch, perceivedR® 


i 1 [1 


Va 


"of 


4 AFRACAN//18L ANTS. - 6oF 


tives, who: are in general expert at diving 5: 
land of Fogo is remarkable for being av ntinually 
ap ſulphurous-exhalations 3 and ſometimes the flame breaks 
* Etna, in a terrible manner, throwing out pumice tones 
uno) all the adjacent parts. Me 1 | 4 Fern 


dur gegen within esse ht of:aps ne Mare kak 
4-43) Weſt longitude | 7420, and was ſo called by the Dutch 


* 


$ & jot exceeding two miles in cireumference but its i 


ire a bone of contention between European nations. It was 
ſeſſed by the Duteh, from whomin-4 664 it Was taken by the 
, but in 1665 it was retaken by the Dutch, and in 1677 ſub- 


when it was reduced by commodore Keppel, but reſtored: to 


och at the treaty of peace in 1763. 
74 013 39% T6 02 mme DOs: Win 5 
. WARIES. The Canarie a, anciently called the Fortunateiſlands, 
ty en in number, and ſituated between 2 and ig degrees Weſk 


ale, and between 27 and 29 degrees North ſatitude, about 
les South-Weſt of. Morecoo. Their particular names are, 
Hiero, Gomera, Teneriſfe, Grand Canaria, Fuertubentura, 
langarote. Theſe illands enjoy a pure temperate air, and a- 
in the moſt delicious fruits, eſpecially grapes, which produce 
nich wines that obtain the name of the , whereof the 


u 10,000 hogſheads annually; The. Canaries-abound with 
lttle beautiſul birds that bear their name, and are now ſo com · 
ud ſo much admired/tn Europe; but their wild notes in their 
land far excel thoſe in a cage or foreign elime. bed 

nd Canary, which communicates its name to the whole, is 
io miles in cireumference, and ſo extremely fertile, as to 
two harveſts in a year. Teneriſfe, the largeſt of theſe iſlands 
bthat of the Grand Canary, is about 120 miles round; a fer- 


49 muntry, abounding in corn, wine, and oil gj though it is rim 
ng encumbered with mountains, particularly the Peak, of whic 
ich \ Glaſs obſerves, that in coming in wich this iſland, in clear 
0 r, the Peak may be eaſily diſcerned at 120 miles diftance, and 
f 1 ag from it at 50. The Peak is an aſcent' in the form of a 
7 loaf, about 15 miles in «circumference; and —_—_— the 
ee] it of Sprat, biſhop | of Rocheſter, publiſhed in the Philoſophi- 


Irafations, near three miles perpendicular. This mountain is 
ano, and ſometimes throws out ſuch quantities of falphur and 
Wore, as to convert the richeſt lands into barren deſarts. Theſe 
6 vere firſt diſcovered and planted by the Carthagenians ; but 
lomang deſtroying that ſtate, put a ſtop to the navigation on 
felt coalt of Africa, and the Canaries Jay concealed from the 
Cthe world, until they were again diſcovered by the Spatiiards 

Tear 1405, to whom they gill belong. | | * 


/ 


MA- 


r 


rom its ſituation for; trade ſo near dape Verd, and has been 


Iby the French; in whole poſſeſſion it remained till the year 


part is exported to England, which in time of peace is com- 


. on 1 R a , Pr _ _ 
a E 5 a 7 | 
: *. * 
5 » 


4 3 * bs Ta 
3 «8 AFRICAN ISEANDS. 
_ _ +», MADEIRAS; The three iſlands called che Madeirat as 
 . ated, according te the author of 'Anfan"swoyage; in a fines 
nn 32 · 27 North latitude, and from 8830 to 19-30 Welt Jon: 
about 100 miles. North of the Canaries, And as many Welt of 
r aabickthwnt doin et 
name of Madeiras, or rather Mattera, om account: of its bei 
merly almoſt covered with wood, is about 75 miles long, 60 
and 180 in circumference. It is compoſed of one continued 1 
a conſiderable height, extending from Faſt to Weſt ; the de 
of which, on the South fide, is culttvated and interſperſec 


Nr 
their country / which ſorm a very 3 roſ 
is but one conſiderable town in the whole and, ho 
Funchal; ſeated on the South part of the iſland,» at the bote 

large bay; towards the ſea, it is defended by a high wall, 

battery of cannon, and is the only plage Where it is poſſibly 
boat to land, and even here the beach is covered with large 
and a violent ſurf continually; beats upon it. 

Though this iſland ſeems to have been known to the ancient 

it lay concealed for many generations, and: was at length diſet 

by the Portugueze in 1519: but others aſſext chat it was firſt 
vered by an Engliſhman, in the year 1344. Be chat as it wi 

Portugueze took poſſeſſion of it, and are ſtill almoſt the only 

who inhabit it. The Portugueze, at their firſt landing, ind 

little better than a thick foreſt, rendeted che ground capable « 
tivation, by ſetting fire to this wood and it is now very fertil 

N parks, ch great abundance the richeſt: wine, ſugar, the mol 
cate fruits, eſpecially ; oranges, lemons; and pomegranates; 

ther with corn, honey, and wax: it abounds. alſo with boars and 

wild; beaſts, and with all ſorts of fowls, beſides numerous gre 
cedar trees, and thoſe that yield dragon's:-blaod;. maſlic, and 
gums. The inhabitants of this iſle make the bet ſweet· meat 

world, and ſucceed wonderfully in preſerving eitrons and e 

and in nr, boy wn and perfumed. paſtes, which exceed 
of Genoa, The ſugar they make is extremely beautiful, and 

naturally ef violets, This indeed is ſaid to be the firſt place 

Weſt, where that manufacture was ſet on foot, and from thenc 
carried to the Brazils in America. The Portugueze-not-ind 

ſo profitable as at firſt, have pulled up 2 part of the 
gar · canes, and planted vine yards in their lead, which prod 
veral ſorts of excellent wine, 8 that which bears the 
of the iſland, Malmſey, and Tent; of all which the inhabitants 

and ſell prodigious quantities. No leſs than 20, oo hoglhe 

Madeira, it is ſaid, ate yearly exported; the & part 

Weſt · Indies, eſpecially, to. Barbadoes, the Madeira wine not 

enduring a hot climate better than any other, but even dein 
proved when expoſed to the ſun in barrels after the bung us 
out. It is ſaid no venomous animal can live here. Of the two 
iſlands, one is called Port Santo, which lyes at a ſmall diſtanceſ 

Madeira, is about eight miles in compaſs,” and extremely terway 
has very good harbours, where ſhips may ride with 7 24 " 


all wipds, except the South-Weſl ; and is frequented 


2 


rr e 


W I * | a. 


80 a 
n ou. 7 
oo. n * 
OY 9 n - * i 


AFRICAN ISLANDS 609 
id and homeward bound. The other iſland is an inconſider« , 
jarren rock. | | TT - \ 


ORES. Theſe are ſituated between 25 and 32 degrees Weſt 
de, and between 37 and 40 North latitude, goo miles Weſk - 
brtugal, and as many Eaſt of Newfoundland, lying almoſt in 
n- way between Europe and America. They are nine in num» 
d are named Santa Maria, St Miguel, or $t Michael, Ter- 

$ George, Gracioſa, Fayal, Pico, Flores, and Corvo. They 
diſcovered in the middle” of the fifteenth century by Joſuah 

u- Berg, a merchant of Bruges in Flanders, who, in a voyage 
on, was, by ſtreſs of weather, driven to theſe iflands, which 
and deſtitute of inhabitants, and called them the Flemiſh iflands. 

ks arrival at Liſbon he boaſted of this diſcovery, on which the 
gere ſet ſail immediately, and took poſſeſſion of them, and to 

| they ill belong, and were called in 12 the Azores, from 
rat number of hawks and falcons found among them. All theſe * 
k enjoy a very clear and ſerene ſky, with a ſalubrious air; but 
woſed to violent earthquakes, from which they have frequently 
ed; and alſo by the inundations of ſurrounding waves. They 
ever extremely fertile in corn, wine, and a variety of fruits, 
attle, fowl, and fith, | 
remarkable that no poiſonous or noxious animal breeds on 
lrores, and if carried thither, will expire in a few hours. 

Michael, which is the largeſt, being near 100 miles in circum- 

z, and containing 50,000 inhabitants, was twice invaded and 

red by the Englith in the reign of queen Elizabeth. Tercera 

moſt important of theſe iſlands, on account of its harbour, 
bis ſpacious, and has good anchorage, but is expoſed to the 
Eaſt winds, Its capital town, Augra, contains a cathedral 
ne churches, and is the reſidence of the governor of theſe 
as well as the biſhop, 


1 
v 


l 
i 
. 
g 
* 
= 
A 
* 
2 

ö 


a % > * 


— — —— 


% 
: 
. 
£ 
— 
: 
-- 
} 
— 
1 


1. 


CY - 
7 * 4 ' 
A M E 5 N 
* — : Fd — 
0 . - L 2 \ 


the New world, extends from the 80 degree North 
degree South latitude ; and where its breadth is 
from the 35 to the 136 degree of Weſt Totigitude; from 
ſtretching between 8 and gooo miles in length, and in 
breadth 3690. It has two Summers, and à double Winter 
Joys all the variety of climates which the earth affords. 
ed by the two great oceans. To the Eaſtward it has the 
which divides it from Europe and Africa. To the Weg 
Pacific, or great South Sea, by which it is ſeparated it 
By theſe ſeas it carries on a direct commerce” with che « 
parts of the world. It is compoſed of two great continent 
the North, the other upon the South, which are joined by 
dom of Mexico, which forms à fort of Uthmns 1500 miles 
in one part at Darien, ſo extremely narrow, as to make 
munication between the two oceans by no means difficult,” Þ 


F: IS great Weſtern continent, ſrecuentiy denomi 


_ - Iy 60 miles over. In the great gulph, which is formed bet 
Iſthmus, and the Northern and Southern eontinents, he 


multitude of iſlands, many of them large, moſt of them fe 
denominated the Weſt-Indies, in contradiſtinction to the 
and iſlands of Aſia, beyond the cape of Good - Hope, whicl 
led the Eaſt - Indies. Fg | 

Though America in general be not a mountamous en 
contains the greateſt mountains in the world. In South Am 
Andes, or Cordilleras, .run from North to South along the 
Pacific ocean. 'I'hey exceed in length any chain of mountal 
other parts of the glohe ; extending from the Iſthmus of Þ 
the ſtreights of Magellan, they divide the whole Southern 
America, and run a length of 4300 miles. Their height 
markable as their length, for though in part within the tor 
they are conſtantly covered with ſnow. In North Ameri 
is chiefly compoſed of gentle aſcents or level plains, we kad 
conſiderable mountains, except thoſe towards the pole, A 
ridge. which lies on the back of our ſettlements, ſeparaung 
lonies from Canada and Louiſiana, which we call the Ap 
or Alegeney mountains; if. that may be conſidered as 4 
which upon one ſide is extremely lofty, but upon the other 


on 4 level with the reſt of the country. | | . | 


— 


: * M4 out 
ex 1 LON Cot hf 


_— 


rr 
8 ” \ * 4 4 


4 TI 


0 * 


4 


8 ** 


nagel 


Ger 


E. 
22 


lr: 


AIC 2501: Ora 
een is, without queſtion, that part of the globe which is bet 


of fertility, but for the convenience of trade, and the inter- 
of each part with the others. In North America, thoſe vaſt 
Sf country, ſituated beyond the Apalachian mountains, at an 


, called the Lakes of Canada, which not only communi» 
wich each other, but give riſe to ſeveral great rivers, particu- 
bike Miſſppi, running from North to South till it falls into, the 
Mexico, after a courſe, including its turnings, of 45 
ud receiving in its progreſs the vaſt tribute vf the Illinois, 
Mores, the Ohio, and other great rivers, ſcarcely inferior to 

ine, or the Danube; and on the North, the river St Lau- 
ranking a contrary courſe from the Miſſiſippi, till it empties 
o the ocean near Newfoundland, all of them being almoſt 
able t0.their heads, lay open the inmoſt receſſes of this great 


ea, which makes a part of the Britiſh empire, beſides the no- 
Evers Hudſon,” Delaware, Suſquehana, and Potowmack, ſup- 
eral others of great depth, length, and commodious navi- 


America ſupplies much the two largeſt rivers (excepting 
Miſifppi) in the world, the river of Amazones, and the Rio 
lata, or Plate River. The firſt riſing in Peru, not far from 


Brazil and Guiana, after a courſe of more than 3000 miles, 
eh it receives a prodigious number of great and navigable ri - 
Tae Rio de la Plata, riſes in the heart of the country; and 
its ſtrength gradually augmented, by an acceſſion of many 
ul ſtreams, diſcharges itſelf with ſuch vehemence into the ſea, 
make it taſte freſh for many leagues from land. Beſides theſe 
we other rivers in South America, of which the - Oronoquo is 
wolt conſiderable. 

Ws country produces moſt of the metals, minerals, plants, drugs, 
bees, and wood, to be met with in the other parts of the 
Wand many of them in greater quantities and higher perfec- 
"The gold and ſilver of America has ſupplied Europe with 
mmenſe quantities of thoſe valuable metals, that they are be- 
altly more common; and the gold and filver of Europe now 


ty of America. 


Reviſe produced here, which by being brought into Europe, 
Wateibuted likewiſe to lower their value; and which, before. 


who then engroſſed the trade of the Eaſtern world. 

ph the Indians ſtill live in the quiet poſſeſſion of many large 

America, ſo far as known, is chiefly claimed, and divided 

wonies, by three European nations, the Spaniards, Engliſh, 
Mugueze, The Spaniards have the largelt and richeſt por - 

| | 4 H 2 | tion, 


- 
- 
. 
4 
r- 


and that not only for the ſupport of life, and all the pur» 


ae and unknown diſtance from the ocean, are watered by in- 


dent, and afford ſuch an inlet for commerce, as are capable 
ducing the greateſt advantages, The Eaſtern fide of North - 


wath-Sea, paſſes from Weſt to Eaſt, and falls into the ocean 


ktle proportion to the high price ſet upon them before the diſ-+ | 


wonds, pearls, emeralds, amethyſts, and other valuable ſtones, | 


very of America, we were forced to buy at an extravagant 
bn Aſia and Africa, through the hands of the Venetians and 


1 


ſ 


— 


. 4. 4 d 
. n 
* *;% 
a | , 
_— . 
> a 


bY „ = a 4 
Us * 1 g N * * % 8-7 oY C — " 1 a K 
— 5 F; l 1 N 4 # 
mt * * S ».& v4 * = 2 e * ”y + * * * * "W MA * q - 
N 3 e 
* N a 1 * y — > , 0 3 — * 2 

1 ' | | | N 
— * 


6 BRITISH AMERICK 
. | "tion, extending from New Mexico and Louiſiana, in North A 
2a, to the ſtreights of Magellan in the South-ſea, excepting the 
province of Brazil, which belongs te Portugal ; for tho! the f 
F | and Dutch have ſome forts upon Surinam and Guiana, they ſcat 
| - , deſerve to be conſidered as proprietors of any part of the Sou 
Continent. | 
| Next to Spain, the moſt conſiderable proprietor of Ameri 
Great Britain, who derives her claim to North America, fron 
firſt diſcovery of that continent, by Sebaſtian Cabot, in the na 
Henry VII. anno 1497, about fix years after the diſcovery of 8 
America by Columbus, in the name of the king of Spain. 
country was in general called Newfoundland, a name which is 
appropriated ſolely to an iſland upon its coaſt. It was a long 
before we made any attempt to ſettle this country, Sir Walter 
.Jeigh, an uncommon genius, and a brave commander, firſt ſhe 
the way by planting a colony in the Southern part, which he c 
Virginia, in honour of his miſtreſs queen Elizabeth. 
. The multitude of iſlands, which lye between the two contine 
North and South America, are divided among the Spaniards, 1 
liiſh, and French. The Dutch indeed poſſeſs three or four 
iſlands, which in any other hands, would be of no conſequence 
the Danes have one or two, but they hardly deſerve to be nam: 
mong the proprietors of America. . 


BRITISH AMERICA, 
NEW BRITAIN, 


EW BRITAIN, comprehending Labrador, new Nori 

South Wales, is bounded by unknown lands, and frozen 
about the pole, on the North; by the Atlantic ocean on the! 
by the bay and river of St Laurence and Canada, on the 80 
and by unknown lands on the Welt, | 


Mountains.) The tremendons high mountains in this count? 
ing eternally covered with ſnow, and the winds blowing from i 
three quarters of the year, occaſion à degree of cold in the Wi 
which is not experienced in any other part of the world in the 
latitude. 


Bays and Straits.) The principal bay is that of Hudſon, and 
principal ſtraits are thoſe of Hudſon, Davies, and Belleille. 


Soil and Produce.] This country is extremely barren z to the 
ward of Hudſon's bay, even the hardy pine-tree is ſeen 10 b 


" — — r = 
ene J | 
5 ** 1 * 3 0 = - | = \ 1 
— 9 A 44- \ 2 = : \ » , , 


BRITISH /'AMERICA” Gy. 
iche earth is incapable of any better production than ſome miſer= 
rubs. Every kind of European ſeed, has hitherto periſhed, 
i inhoſpitable climate; but in all probability, we have not iried. 

ved of corn from the Northern parts of Sweden and Norway 
ch caſes, the place from whence the ſeed comes is of great mo- 
at. All this ſeverity, and long continuance of Winter, and the 
enneſs of the earth which comes from thence, is experienced in 
atitude of 52 ; the temperate latitude of Cambridge. 


finals.) Theſe are the mouſe-deer, tags, rein-deer, bears, ty- 
buffaloes, wolves, foxes, beavers, - otters, lynzes, martins, 
rrels, ermins, wild-cats, and hares. Of the feathered kind, 
q have geeſe, buſtards, ducks, patridges, and all manner of wild 
Ot filh, there are whales, morſes, ſeals, cod-hib, and a 
te filh, preterable to herrings ; and in their rivers and ireth u a- 
pike, perch, carp, and trout. There have been taken at Port 
ton, in one ſeaſon, go,coo partridges, which are here as large as 
vs, and 25,000 hares. | 
All the animals of-theſe countries are cloathed with a cloſe, ſuſt, 
un fur. In Summer there is here, as in other places, a variety 
the colours of the ſeveral animals; when that ſeaſon is over, which 
ds only for three months, they all aſſume the colour of the ſnow ; 
thing animete and inanimate is white. This is a ſurprizing 
knomenon, But what is yet more ſurprizing, the dogs and cats 
m England, that have ben carried into Hudſon's bay, on the 
ech of Winter, have entirely changed their appearance, and 
quired a much longer, ſofter, and thicker coat of hair than they 
originally. | | 
Al * ed of this new world, are leſs than thoſe of the 
ij even ſuch as are carried from hence to breed there, are often 
ud to degenerate, but are never ſeen to improve. If, with reſpect 
ue, we ſhould compare the animals of the new and the old world, 
would find the one bear no manner of proportion to the other. 
Ie Aliatic elephant, often grows to above fifteen feet high, while 
apurette, which is the largeſt native of America, is not bi 
Wn a calf of a year old. The lama, which ſome alſo call the A- 
can camel, is (till leſs. Their beaſts of prey are quit: diveſted 
wat courage which is ſo often fatal to man in Africa or Aſia. 
le have no lions, nor, properly ſpeaking, either leopard or tiger. 
wellers, however, have affixed thoſe names to ſuch ravenous a- 
Wis, as are there found moſt to reſemble thoſe of the ancient con- 
n. The congar, the taquar, and the taquaretti among them, 
&ſpicable in compariſon to the tiger, the leopard, and the pan- 
& of Alia. All the animals, therefore, in the Southern parts of 
rica, are different from thoſe in the Southern parts of the ancient 
Minent; nor does there appear to be any common to both, but 
le, which being able to bear the colds of the North, have travel- 
om one continent to the other. Thus the bear, the wolf, the 
Ger, the ag, and the beaver, are known as well by the inha- 
's of New Britain, and Canada, as Ruſſia ; while the lion, the 
ud, and the tiger, which are natives of the South with us, are 
Wy unknown in Southern America. But if the quadrupeds of 
America 


* : 
— Go. — „ LO I OI — —— —_ _ 
o = - vw ——_— 
E o = 1 1 * 2 _ * * * 2 = 
, e 


- — — 2 — 
* = — = 
. p 


— 


te moſt, generally produces fivez ſix, and ſometimes more. 


* 


much greater abundance; for the ſmalleſt animals multiply in 


ity in their manner of kindling a fire, in cloathing themſelves, 


_ which every where ſurrounds them, for the 22 part of the ye 


* „ * 


* > LC 
* } . 
* * 
dhe M ee F N 
* * , 3 * *%* 
* * 37) LRN I W 8 
1 4 Y 
_ \ 4 


of BRITISH AMERTCS 
| America be ſmaller than thoſe of the ancient'continent; they gr 


greateſt proportion. 'The,goat, imported from Europe to Sout} 
America, in a few generations becomes much leſs, but then it 
becomes more prolific, and inſtead of one lid at a time, or twi 


Perm and Habits. ] The men of this country ſhew areal 
in preſerving their eyes from the ill effects of that glaring w 


in other reſpects they are very ſavage. In their ſhapes and f 
they do not reſemble the Americans who live to the Southw; 
they are much more like the Laplanders and Samoeids of Eur 
from whom they are probably deſcended. ' The other Ameri 
ſeems to be of a Tartar original. N | 


CANADA, or the Province, or Que 


SITUATION AND EXTENT. 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 800 61 and 81 Weſt longitude. 
Breadth a, An 955 and 52 North lakude 


Boundaries. THE French comprehended under che nan 
o Canada, a very large territory, taking 

their claim part of New Scotland, New England, and New Tt 
on the Eaſt; and to the Weſt, extending it as far as the Pacif 
cean. That part, however, which they have been able to cult 

tay chiefly upon the banks of the river St Laurence, and the nun 
ous ſmall rivers falling into that ſtream. This being reduce 
the Britiſh arms in the late war, is now, formed into a Britiſh c 
ny, called the Province of Quebec. See the Royal Proclamation. 


Air and Climate.] The climate of this extenſive province 1s 
very different from the Northern colonies, but as it is much fart Nr. 
from the ſea, and more Northerly than a great part of thele pr rie 
ces, it has a much ſeverer Winter, though the air js generally r 
but like moſt of thoſe American tracts, that do not lye too f. ly its 
the Northward, the Summers are very hot, and exceeding Im 


. - — „ ang 
Soil and Produce.] Though the climate be cold, and the WR... 
long and tedious, the ſoil is in general very good, and in Ht. ; 


parts extremely fertile, in wheat, barley, rye, with other 7 . 7 


BRITISH AMERICA 8 
fruits, and vegetables; tobacco in particular, thrives well, 
much cultivat The iſle of Orleans, near Quebec, and the 
upon the river St Laurence, and other rivers, are remarkable 
he richneſs of their ſoil, The meadow. grounds in Canada, 
Gare well watered, yield excellent. graſs, and breed vaſt num- 
of great and fmall cattle, _ TR | b N. 


er and Plants.) The uncultivated parts of North America, 
in the greateſt foreſts in the world. They are a continued 
not planted by the hands of men, and in all appearance as 
s the world itſelf,, Nothing is more magnificent to the ſight z 
res are exceedingly bigh, and there is ſuch. a prodigious va- 
gel ſpecies, that even among thoſe perſons who have taken molt 
to kaow them, there is not one perhaps that knows half the 
er, This province produces two forts of pints, the white and 
ul; four ſorts of firs ; two ſorts of cedar and oak, the white 
the red; the male and female. maple ; three ſorts of aſh-trees, 
ee, the mungrel, and the baſtard ; three ſorts of walnut - ttees 
hard, the ſoſt, and the ſmooth ; vat numbers of beech-trees, 
white wood; white and red elms, and poplars. The Indians 
w the red elms into canoes, ſome of which, made out of one 
|, will contain 20 perſons; others are made of the bark, the 
rent pieces of which they few together with the inner rind, and 
over the ſeams with pitch, or rather a bituminous matter reſem- 
pitch, to prevent their leaking; and the ribs of. theſe canoes 
made of boughs of trees. About November, the bears and wild 
take up their habitation in the hollow elms, and remain there 
April. Here are alſo found cherry-trees, plum-trees, the vine- 
ure, the fruit of which, infuſed in water, produces vinegar ; 
Kquatic plant, called alaco, the fruit of which may be made in- 
confection; the white thorn ; the cotton-tree, on the top of 
© grow ſeyeral tifts of flowers, which, when ſhaken in the mor- 
b before the dew falls off, produce honey, that may be boiled 
Wicto ſugar, the ſeed being a pod, containing a vefy fine kind of 
n; the ſun-plant, which reſembles a marigold, and grows to 
teipht of ſe ven or eight feet ; Turkey corn, French beans, gourds, 
kts, capillaire, and the hop-plant. 


a; and Minerali.] Near Quebec is a fine lead mine, and in 
of the mountains, we are told, ſilver has been found, though 
ave not heard that any great advantage has been made of it as 
This country alſo abounds with coals. 


r.] The principal are, the Outtauais, St John's, Seguenay, 
hrarics, and Trois Rivieres ; but they are all ſwallowed up by 
wer St Laurence. This river iſſues from the lake Ontario, and 
Wy its courſe North-Eaſt, waſhes Montreal, where it receives the 
Mais, and forms many fertile iſlands. It continues the fame 
4 and meets the tide upwards of 400 miles from the ſea, where 
Wigable for large veſſels ; and below 9 320 miles from 


=, it becomes broad, and ſo deep that ſhips of the line contri- 
u the laſt war, to reduce that capital. After receiving in 
| A. L ns 


9 | „ b — 
+ 7 ä rn nn, — 
- Fan © . . 4 
\ U * a * f _ 
* 1 l 
8 of i d FY 
. 7 1 1 . . 


' | B R 1.T 16 AM K 1 CA 
its progreſs innumerable ſtreams, this great river falls into the 


at cape Roſieres, where it is 90 miles hroad; and w 
Intenſe, and the fea boiſterod. wa. .5 here the 


* = p s 
9 - „ 
. \ 
od * 
676 
het 


Tales. ] Here are five lakes, the ſmalleſt of which is a pi 
ſweet water, greater than any in the other parts of the world 
are the lake Ontario, which is not Jeſs than 200 leagues in * 
erence; Erie, or Oſwego, longer, but not ſo broad, is abo 
ſame extent. That of the Huron ſpreads greatly in width, and 
circumference not leſs than 3oo, as is that of Michigan, thous 
lakes Erie, it is rather long and comparatively narrow; 
lake Superior, which contains ſeveral large iſlanda, is 500 leay 


communicate with one another, except that the paſſage betweer 
and Ontario, is interrupted by a ſtupendous fall or cataract, 
is called the fall of Niagara. The water here is near à mile 
where the rock croſſes it, not in a direct line, but in the for 
half- moon. When it comes to the perpendicular” fall, which 
feet, no words can expreſs the conſternation of travellers at 
ſo great a body of water falling, or rather violently thrown, 
ſo great an height, upon the rocks below; from/whence it ag 
bounds to a very great height, appearing white as ſnow, bei 
covered into foam through thoſe violent agitations; The nt 
this fall is often heard at the diſtance of "fifteen miles, and 
times much farther, The vapour ariſing” from the fall ay 
times be ſeen at a great diſtance, appearing like a cloud,”or 
of ſmoak, and in the appearance of a rainbow, whenever tl 
and the poſition of a traveller favours.” Many beaſts and fow! 
Joſe their lives, by attempting to ſwim, or croſs the ſtream 
current above the fall, and are found daſhed in pieces below 
| ſometimes the Indians, through carelefſaeſs or drunkenneſs, 
met with the ſame fate; and perhaps no place in the world 
quented by ſuch a number of eagles as are invited hither by th 
nage of deer, elks, bears, &c. on which they feed; The 1 
Laurence, is the outlet of theſe'lakes ; by which they diſcharge 
ſelves into the ocean. ; 


Animals.) The animals that find ſhelter and nouriſhmen 
immenſe foreſts of Canada, and which indeed traverſe the un 
vated parts of all this continent, are ſtags, elks, deer, bears, 

martins, wild cats, ferrets, weſels, ſquirrels of a large fize and 
iſh hue, hares, and rabbits. The Southern parts in particular 
great numbers of wild bulls, deer of a ſmall fize, divers ſe 
roebucks, goats, wolves, &c. The marſhes lakes, and pools f 
with otters, beavers or caſtors, of which the white are highly 
ed, being ſcarce, as well as the right black kind. The Ame 
beaver is near four ſeet in length, and weigh fixty br ſeventype 
they live from fifteen to twenty years, and the females gen 
bring forth four young ones at a time. It is an amphibious 
druped, that continues not long at a time in the watery but 
not live without frequently bathing in it. Their coloors ae? 
ent; black, brown, white, yellow, and ſtraw- colour, but it 


"x 


the circuit. All of theſe are navigable by any veſſels, and th 


that the lig their colour, the leſs quantity of fur 

thed with, and live in warmer climates. 
race of two kinds, the dry and the green ; the dry fur is the 
Lore it is applied to any uſe; the green are the furs that are 
zfter being ſewed to one another, by the Indians, who be- 


them with unQuous ſubſtances, which not only render them 


zlable; but give the fine down that is manufactured into hats, 
wr quality which” renders it proper to be worked up with the 
i, Both the Dutch and Englith have of late found the ſecret 
ing excellent cloths, gloves, and _— as well as hats, 
the beaver fur. Beſides the fur, this uſeful animal produces 
me talloreum, which is contained in bags in the lower part of 


„ The fleſh of the beaver is a moſt delicious food, but when 
Wit has a diſagreeable reliſh, | _ 
aas. rat is a\ diminutive kind of animal, reſembling a bea- 
f every thing but its tail. It affords a very ſtrong muſk, and 
fe or ſix pounds. | | 
& elk is of the ſize of a horſe or mule. Its fleſh is very es 
ud nouriſhing, and its colour a mixture of light-grey and dark · 
They love the cold countries; and when the Winter affords 
io graſs, they gnaw the bark of trees. It is dangerous to ap- 
Avery near this animal when he is hunted, as he ſometimes 
bs furiouſly on his purſuers, and tramples them to pieces. 
rent this, the hunter throws his clothes to him, and while 
kuded animal ſpends his fury on theſe, he takes proper mea- 
v diſpatch him, 8 4er 
he is a carnivorous animal here, called tlie carcajou, of the 
oe cat kind, with a tail ſo long, that Charlevoix ſays he twiſt- 
kfneral times round his body. Its body is about two feet in 
„ from the end of the ſnout to the tail. It is ſaid, that this 
, winding himſelf about a tree, will dart from thence upon 


nt, 


thoſe of Europe; his body is covered with a black wool, which 
ly eſteemed. The fleſh of the female is very good; and the 
e hides are as ſoſt and pliable as chamoes leather, but fo very 
that the bucklers which the Indians make uſe of are hardly 
able by a muſket-ball. The Canadian roebuck is a domeſtic 
i but differs in no other reſpect from thoſe of Europe, Wolves 
arce in Canada, but they afford the fineſt furs in all the coun- 


ei fleſh is white, and good to eat; and they purſue their 
oc tops of the talleſt trees. The black foxes are greatly eſ- 
7 „and very ſcarce ; but thoſe of other colours are more com- 


ud ſome on the Upper Miſſiſippi are of a ſilver colour, and 
Peantiful, They live upon water-fowls, which they decoy with- 
Er clutches by a thouſand antic tricks, and then ſpring upon 
dur them. The Canadian poll-cat has a moſt beautiful white 
cept the tip of his tail, which is as black as jer. Nature has 


Wy nauſeous; this, when attacked, it ſprinkles plentifully on 
4 1 1 


* 


B RT TTS AN ENT Ay 


y, different from the teſticles ; the value of this drug is well 


&, twilt his ſtrong tail round his body, and cut his throat in 4 
buffaloe, a kind of wild ox, has much the ſame appearance 


this animal no defence but its urine, the ſmell of which is in- 


— — 2 — 


—_— — — 


= 
# = 
- w, 
= 
RU ——_— ͤ ö—ölꝛm̃à̃ꝛñꝛ— — ooo 


63 BRTTISA: AMERtox 
its tail, and throws it on the aſſailant. The Canadian 
the European : the female carries under her belly a bag, whi 


aſleep, and he puts up wherever he can find a place, in one 
pocket, or muff; he firſt pitches on his maſter, whom he will 


they ſpread out as a fan, and make a very. beautiful appeat 


well as a pullet, and an owl better. Here are black-birds, ſw 


| fhowy, and remarkable for announcing the return of Springs 
all his plumage, he is no bigger than a cock-chafer, and be 


they know its age by its tail, as we do that of- a horſe by it 


grows a plant which is called rattle-ſnake herb, the root af 


BF; * * N 
F n _ 


* 


af a beautiful ſilver colour, with a bulky tail, and twice u. 


opens and ſhuts at pleaſure; and in that ſhe places her youn 

purſued, Here are three ſorts of ſquierels3- that called the 
ſquirrel, will leap 40 paces and more, from one tree to a; 
This little animal is. eaſily tamed, and is very lively, but « 


guiſh among 20 perſons. The Canadian porcupine is leſs 
middling dog; when roaſted, he eats full as well as a ſuckir 
"The hares and rabbits differ little from thoſe in Europe, onl 
turn grey in Winter. There are two forts of bears here, 0 
reddiſh, and the other of a black colour ; but the former is th 
dangerous. The bear is not naturally fierce, unleſs when wor 
or- oppreſſed with hunger. They run themſelves very poor 
month of July, when it is ſomewhat dangerous to meet them 
they are ſaid to ſupport themſelves during the Winter, w 
ſnow lyes from four to ſix. feet deep, by fucking their paws, 

any thing among the Indians is undertaken with greater ſolg 
than hunting the bear; and an alliance with a noted bear- 
who has killed ſeveral in one day, is more eagerly ſought aſte 
that of one who has rendered himſelf famous in war. There 
becauſe the chace ſupplies the family with both food and rait 
Qf the feathered creation, they have eagles, falcons, goll 
tercols, partridges, grey, red, and black, with long tails, 


e 


woodcocks are ſcarce in Canada, but ſnipes, and other water 
are plentiful. A Canadian raven is ſaid by ſome writers to 


and larks; no leſs than 22 different ſpecies of ducks, and 
number of ſwans, turkeys, geeſe, buſtards, teal, water -hens, 
and other large water-fowl; but always at à diſtance from! 
Thruſhes and goldfinches are found here; but the chief C 
bird of melody is the white-bird, which is a kind of ortola 


fly-bird is thought to be the moſt. beautiful of any in nature 


a Noiſe with his wings like the humming of a.larye fly, | 

Among the reptiles of this country, the rattle-ſnake is ti 
remarkable. Some of them are as big as a man's leg, and 
ſix feet in length. Its tail is ſcaly like a coat of male, and it 
there grows every year one ring, qr row of ſeales upon it; 


In moving, it makes a rattling noiſe, from which it has its 
The bite of this ſerpent is mortal, if a-remedy is not applied 
diately. In all places where this dangerous reptile is bred, 


(ſuch is the goodneſs of Providence) is a certain antidote ag 
venom-of this ſerpent, and that with the moſt ſimple preps 
for it requires only to be pounded or chewed, and applied 
plaiſter to che wound. The rattle · ſnake ſeldom bites pallevge 


5 , , 1 N 
a ' 


Fi - 


BRITISH/'AMERTICA '/ 69 


4is provoked, and never darts itſelf at any perſon without firſt 
g three times with its tail. When purſued, if it has but a tits 
e to recover, it folds itſelf round, with the head in the mid · 
ad then darts itſelf with great fury and violence againſt its 
45: nevertheleſs, the ſavages chaſe it, and find its fleſh / very 
which is uſed by the American apothecaries in particular 


ss the great variety of other fiſh in the rivers and lakes, are 
tres, ſea-cows, -porpoiſes, the lencornet, the goberque, the 
iſe, ſalmon, trout, turtle, lobſters, the chaouraſou, ſturgeon, 
xhigaw, the gilthead, tunny, ſhad, lamprey, ſmelts, conger- 
mackarel, ſoals, herrings, anchovies, and pilchards. he 
lf, ſo called from its howling, is an amphibious creature; the 

| are ſaid to weigh 2009 pounds; their fleſh is good eating: 

ihe profit of it ly as in the oil, which is proper for burning, and 

ng of leather; their ſkins make excellent coverings for trunks, 
though hot ſo fine as Morocco leather, they preſerve their freſh- 
better, and are leſs liable to cracks. The ſhoes and boots made 
hoſe ſkins let in no water, and, when properly tanned, make 
lent and laſting covers for ſeats. The Canadian fea-cow is 
xr than the ſea-wolf, but reſembles it in figure: it has two teeth 
&« thickneſs and length of a man's arm, that, when grown, look 
horns, and are very fine ivory as well as its other teeth. Some 
i porpoiſes of the river 8t Lawrence are ſaid to yield a hogſhead, 
A; and of their ſkins waiſtcoats are made, which are exceſſive 
g and muſket- proof. The lencronet is a kind of kuttle · fiſh, 
bound, or rather oval; there are three ſorts of them, which 
zonly in ſize; fone being as large as a hogſhead, and others 
afoot long; they catch only the laſt, and that with a torch: 
are excellent eating. The goberque has the taſte and ſmell of 
hall cod. The ſea-plaiſe is good eating; they are taken with 
| poles armed with iron hooks. The charouafou is an armed 
dont five feet long, and as thick as a man's thigh, reſembling 
; but is covered with ſcales that are proof againſt a dagger : 
wour is a ſilver grey; and there grows under his mouth a long 
q ſubſtance, Tagged at the edges. He conceals himſelf among 
lanes and reeds, in ſuch a manner that nothing is to be ſeen be- 
bis weapon, which he holds raiſed perpendicularly, above the | 
We of the water: the fowls, which come to take reſt, imagining | 


—- [ ͤ -1F 8 


— . 
D 


— 
— wit nk > ns WEE i ISI on 


Kapon to be only a withered reed, perch upon it, but they are 
War alighted, than the fiſh* opens his throat, and makes ſuch 1417 
ben motion to ſeize his prey, that it ſeldom eſcapes him. This „ 
u inhabitant of the lakes. The achigau, and the gilthead, | 
Md peculiar to the river St Lawrence. Some of the rivers breed 
lol crocodile, that differs but little from thoſe of the Nile. 


Wabitants and principal Towns.) The different tribes of Indians 

ada are almoſt innumerable ; but theſe people are obſerved to F 
Mal in population where the Europeans are moſt numerous, ow- 
el to the immoderate uſe of ſpiritous liquors, of which they 
wwellively fond. 


er, the capital of all Canada, is ſituated at the confluence 2 
4 I 2 , 


* 
. 


- 


* 


ver, which from the ſea hither is four or ſive 


in various kinds of furs and ſkins. The country here is ple 


ten leagues in length and four in breadth, at the foot of a mou 


* - * - wy 
f * K * # p 


— 
* 


| ' 

626 BRITISH AMERICA NS. 
the rivers St Lawrence and St Charles, or the little river 
320 miles from the ſea. It is built on a rock, partly of mark 

of ſlate. The town is divided into an upper and a + 
the houſes in both are of ſtone, and built in a tolerable manner 
fortifications are ſtrong, though not regular, The town is & 
with à regular and beautiful citadel, in which the governor re 
The number of inhabitants are computed at 12 or 15,000, II 


all of a ſudden to about a mile wide. The harbour, which hee 
polite the town, is fafe and commodious, and about five £ 
deep. It is flanked by two baſtions, that are raiſed 25 feet fro: 
ground, which is about the height of the tides at the time of 
quinox. 1 

The town called Trois Rivieres, or the Three rivers, is 
half way between Quebec and Montreal, and has its name 
three rivers which join their currents here, and fall into the gt 
rence. It is much frequented by ſeveral nations of Indians, 
by means of theſe rivers, reſort hither and trade with the inhak 


MME TOTES EEE 


and fertile in corn, fruit, '&c. and great numbers of handſome 
ſes ſtand on both ſides the rivers. | 
Montreal ſtands on an iſland in the river 8t Lawrence, wt 


which gives name to it, about half a league, from the South 
The city forms an oblong ſquare, divided by regular and well 
ed ſtreets 3 and when it fell into the hands of the Engliſh, the 
ſes were built in a very handſome manner, and every houſe « 
be ſeen at one view from the harbour, or from the Southermol 
of the river, as the hill on the fide of which the town ſtands 
gradually to the water. This place is ſurrounded by a wall 
dry ditch, and its fortifications have been much improved | 
Engliſh, Montreal is nearly as large as Quebec z but knce 
into the hands of the Engliſh it hath ſuffered much by fires, 


—— — 
—ͤͤ — > io iii ins i ern Oo OO EE IDES In —§—¶ m IE EE iS EO .,. Een or P ˙ A —_—_— 


NEW SCOTLAND, 


Sirpartion AND ExTENT. 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 2507 , 43 and 49 North latitude 
Breadth 2 ad; between J 60 and 67 Welt longitude. 


Boundaries] n by the river St Lawrence 
| North; by the gulph of St Lawrence, ® 

Atlantic ocean, Eaſt; by the fame ocean, South; and by 
and New England, Weſt, 3 


_ 


1 _ * 
* 


eln. BRITISH AMERICA ar 
The river of St Lawrence forms the Northern boundary. 
- Riſgouche and Nipiſiguit run from Weſt to Eaſt, and 
Ito the bay of St Lawrence. The rivers of St John, 


Penobſcot, and St Croix, which run from North to 
"to Fundy bay, or the Sea a little to the Eaſtward of it. 


tut, Bays, and Capes. The ſeas adjoining to it are, the Atlantic / 
ao, Fundy bay, and the gulph of St Lawrence. The leſſer bays 
Chenigto and Green bay upon the Iſthmus, which joins the 
\ part of Nova Scotia to the South ; and the bay of Chaleurs 
he North-Eaſt ; the bay of Chedibucto on the South-Eaſt ; the 
«of the iſlands, the ports of Bart, Chebucto, Proſper, St Mar- 
u La Heve, port Maltois, port Ryſignol, port Vert and port 16 
on the South; port La Tour, on the South - Eaſt; port Se 0 
n, Annapolis, and Minas on the South fide of Fundy bay. 

The chief capes are, cape Portage, Ecoumenac, Tourmentin, 
w Port and Epis, on the Eaſt. Cape Fogeri, and cape Canceau, 
the South-Eaſt. Cape Blanco, cape Vert, cape Theodore, cafe | 
xe, cape Le Heve, and cape Negro, on the South. Cape Sable, 11 
{cape Fourche, on the South-Weſt. - | | | 


— — — —— — 


(linate.] The climate of this country, though within the tempe- | lf 
Lone, has been found rather unfavourable to European conſli- Fit 
ious, They are wrapt up in fog during great part of the year, l 
{ for four or five months it is intenſely cold. But though the cold tf 

Winter, and the heat in Summer are great, they come ou gradu- 
h, ſo as to prepare the body for enduring both. 


bil and Produce.) New Scotland is almoſt a continued foreſt. In 
parts, the ſoil is thin and barren, the corn it produces of a 
nelled kind like rye, and the graſs intermixed with a cold ſpan 

6, However, there are tracts in the Peninſula to the Con 
h which do not yield to the beſt land in New England; and, 
general, the ſoil is adapted to tbe produce of hemp and flax. The 
aber is extremely proper for ſhip-Building, and produces pitch 
* tar, 


final.) This country abounds in the animal productions of the 
abouring provinces, particularly deer, beaver, and otters. Wild 
", and all manner of game, and many kinds of European fowls 
K quadrupeds have, from time to time, been brought into it, and 
ne well. At.the cloſe of March, the fiſh begin to ſpawn, when 
enter the rivers in ſuch ſhoals, as are incredible. Herrings 
* up in April, and the ſturgeon and ſalmon in May. 


_rl - 


2 
[ 
| 
| 
| 
4 
| | 
l 


| W > N 
: x : / 


* „ a c * e * 
ia 4 4 0 * * c > : . « * 
b * 
\ _ 
$ b ” — 
9 ” Y 
= a * - 
— 7 _ * 
* 
: ” 


” * 
: * | 4 ” " ” > * a. * 5 * , | 
© © - , 5 ' : A : 
0 AYES 7 volt TOES. 
” . . - 


* 


"NEW ENGLAND. 


S1TUATION and EXTERT. 


5 _ Miles. Degrees. 
Length a between 5 4" and 49 North latitude, 


67 and 74 Welt longitude. * 

Boundaries. U OUNDED on the Norch-Eaſt by New Sa 

: | on the Weſt, by Canada ; on the South by WR *: 

| York; and on the Eaſt by the Atlantic, AF " 

| Diviſions. Provinces, Chief towns, a L 

The North diviſion . 

| The 600, F New Hampſhire J { Portſmouth of 
| | 2 FSI : Bos rox, N. lat. e. 
i The middle diviſion 4 Maſſachuſer's Col. 5 J 2%. W. aa. BT. 
1 The Soth divifion Rhode iſland, &c. —_— irs 
il 2 * New Lo c 
6 . The Weſt _— } ConneRiicut 2 Hertford. ; - 
4 Rivers. ] Their rivers are; Connecticut; Thames ; Patuxent ; Met 
3 rimac; Piſcatawayz Saco; Caſco; Kinebeque ; and Penobi be 
4 or Pentagonet. | | bort 
{ Bays and Caper.) The moſt remarkable bays and harbours hin 
1 thoſe formed by Plymouth, Rhode-Ifland, and Providence play weed: 
f tions; Monument-Bay; Weſt-Harbour, formed by the bending. , 
1 Cape - Cod; Boſton-Harbour, Piſcataway, and Caſco-Bay. Ney h 
il The chief capes are, Cape-Cod, Marble-Head, Cape-Anne, Ca be i 
| Netic, Cape-Porpus, Cape-Elizabeth, and Cape-Small-Point. WW. 
4 Air and Climate.) New England, though ſituated almoſt ten & 
i grees farther South than the mother country, has an earlier | fry; 
1 ter, which continues longer, and is more ſevere than with us. be 
Summer again is extremely hot, and much beyond any thing but "A 


in Europe, in the ſame latitude. The clear and ſerene tempera finar 
of the ſky, however, makes amends for the extremity of beat! 
cold, and renders the climate of this country ſo healthy, that 
reported to agree better with Britiſh conſtitutions, than any 0. 
of the American provinces. : 
The ſun riſes at Boſton, on the longeſt day, at 26 minutes 
four in the morning, and ſets at 34 minutes after ſeven in the e 


fagtind. BRITISH AMERICA GS * 
and on their ſhorteſt day, it riſes at 35 minutes after-ſeveri in 


4 ing, and ſets at 27 minutes after four in the afternoon : 
; their longeſt day is about fifteen hours, and their ſhorteſt a- 
nine. 0 ' k 


% Produce. ] The lands lying on the Eaſtern ſhore of Ame- 
re low, and in ſome parts ſwampy, but farther- back they 
ao hills. In New England, towards the North-Eaſt, the 
become rocky and mountainous. The ſoil here is various, but 
n you approach the Southward. Round Maſſachuſet's bay the 
WE; black, and rich as in any part of England; and here the firk 
ers ſound the 3 above a yard high. The uplands are tefs 
, being for the molt part a mixture of ſand and gravel, in- 
Wing to clay. The low grounds abound in meadow and paſture 
=. The European grains have not been cultivated here with 
yſucceſs; the wheat is ſubject to be blaſted ; the barley is an 
wry grain, and the oats are lean and chaffy. But the Indian 
WW: fouriſhes in high perfection, and makes the general food of 

hover ſort of people. They likewiſe melt and brew it into a beer, 
ch is not contemptible. They likewiſe raiſe in New England a 
x: quantity of hemp and flax. The fruits of Old England come 
eat perfection here, particularly peaches and apples. Seven or 
* hundred fine peaches may be found on one tree, and a ſingle 
e. tree has produced ſeven barrels of cyder in one ſeaſon, —- 
The oaks here are faid to be inferior to thoſe of England;; but 
firs are of an amazing bulk, and were wont to furnilh the royal 
of England with maſts and yards. They draw from thei 
conſiderable quantities of pitch, tar, roſin, turpentine, gums, 
(balm; and the foil produces hemp and flax. 


Metals.) Rich iron mines, of a moſt excellent kind and temper, 
been diſcovered in New England, and, if improved, might in 
Ibort time equal the Swediſh, | HS: 


fiimal;.] All kinds of European cattle thrive here, and multiply 
kteedingly ; the Horſes of New England are hardy, and ſervice- 
„ but ſmaller than the Engliſh, though larger than the Welch. 
ile have few ſheep ; and the wool, though of a ſtaple ſufficiently 
kg, is not near ſo fine as that of England. Here are alſo elks, 
+ hares, rabbits, ſquirrels, beavers, otters, monkeys, minks, 
mins, racoons, ſabbs, bears, wolves, which are only a kind of 
d dogs, foxes, ounces, and a variety of other tame and wile 
aurupeds. But one of the moſt ſingular animals, of this and the 
ibouring countries, is the moſe or mooſe deer, of which there 
two forts; the common light-grey mooſe, which reſembles the 
nary deer; and the large black mooſe, whoſe body is about rhe 
R of 2 bull. The horns, when full grown, are about four or five 
tom the head to the tip, and have ſhoots or branches to each 
m, which generally ſpread about ſix feet. When this animal 
through a thicket, or under the boughs of a tree, he lays his 
* back on his neck, to place them out of his way; and theſe 
3108s horns are ſhed every year. He does not ſpring or riſe 

| | $7" 2 hs 


* ä 6 
+ Bi þ 
4 ww * 


@4 BRITISH AMERTER | v 
in going like a deer; but a large one, in his common walk, has 
ſeen to ſtep over a gate five*feet high. When unharboured, he 
run a courſe of twenty or thirty miles before he takes to a bay, 
ben chaſed, he generally takes to the water. 
Here are great plenty of fowls, as turkeys, geeſe, partri 4 
ducks, widgeons, dappers, ſwans, heathcocks, herons, ſtorks, bi 
birds, all ſorts of barn-door fowl, vaſt flights of pigeons, w 
come and go at certain ſeaſons of the year, cormorants, ray 
crow, &c. The reptiles are, rattle-ſnakes, frogs, and toads, w 
ſwarm in the uncleared parts of the countries, where, with the c 
they make a moſt hideous noiſe in the Summer evenin 
I be ſeas round New England, as well as its rivers, abound 
fiſh, and even whales of ſeveral kinds. A terrible creature, 
ed the whale-killer, from 20 to 30 feet long, with ſtrong 
and jaws, perſecutes the whale in thoſe ſeas ;. but, afraid of his 
Rrous ſtrength, they ſeldom attack a full grown whale, or inde 


ng one, but in companies of ten or twelve. At the moulif 


the river Penobſcot, there is a mackarel fiſhery ; they likewiſe 
for cod ia Winter, which they dry in the froſt. 


Religion.) The church of England, in this part of Ameri 
far from being in a flouriſhing condition; in ſeveral places, then 
ber of anditors do not amount to twelve perſons. In the year | 
the four provinces contained upwards of 700 religious aſſembi 
of which 36 only obſerved the forms of the church of England, 
very particular ſociety among them, is independent of all other 
clefiaftical juriſdiction ; nor does there lye any appeal from 
puniſhments or cenſures. The miniſters of Boſton depend ent 
on the generoſity of their hearers for ſupport z a voluntary cot 
bution being made for them, by the N every time 
vine ſervice is celebrated. It is not long ſince they ſuſfered 
member of the church of England to have a ſhare in the magiltr 
or to be elected a member of the Commons, or houſe of Kepr 
tatives. 


NEW TT OR 


SITUATION AND Exr ENT. 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 300 40 and 46 North latitude. 
Breadth 1 ot enn 18 and 76 Weſt longitude. 


Beundarics. NMI EW YORK is bounded on the South 
South-Weſt, by Hudſon's and Delaware f 


* 


Yo 


WW BRITISH/AMERICA «625, 
ade it from New Jerſey and Penſylvania 3 on the Eaſt and 
bad, by New England and the Atlantic Ocean ; and on the 


Weſt, by Canada. | 
bs province, including the iſland of New York, Long-iſland, 


F duatin iſland, is divided into the ten following counties: 
| 
, Counties. Chief towns. | 
\ O- . N. At. N 

0 Albany — — Albany 

Ulller — 
| Ducheſs — = 

Orange — gange 

Weſt-Cheſter — Welt- Cheſter 

King's — None 
le Queen's — Jamaica 
ut Suffolk: — Southampton | 
le Richmond — — Richmond. 


Mert. The principal of theſe are Hudſon's and the Mohawk; 
former abounds with excellent harbours, and is well ſtored with 
ut variety of fiſhz on this the cities of New York and Albany 
ltuated, On the Mohawk is a large cataract, called the Co- 
* the water of which is ſaid to fall 70 feet perpendicular, where 
mer is a quarter of a mile in breadth. ' 


he,] Theſe are Cape May, on the Eaſt entrance of Delaware 
fr; Sandy- Hook, near the entrance of Raritan river; and Mon- 
k Point, at the Eaſt end of Long Iſland. | 


limate, Soil, and Produce.) This province, lying to the South 
ler England, enjoys a more happy temperature of climate. The 
$rery healthy, and agrees well with all conſtitutions. The face 
ie country, reſembling that of the other colonies in Ameri- 
s low, flat, and marſhy, towards the ſea. As you recede from 
cal, the eye is entertained with the gradual ſwelling of hills, 
@ become large in proportion as you advance into the country. 
| ſoil is extremely fertile, producing wheat, rye, Indian corn, 
e barley, flax, and fruits in great abundance and perfection. 
umder is much the ſame with that of New England. A great 
dt iron is found here. | 


lug.] All religious denominations, except Jews and Papiſts, 
Mequal privileges here. Judaiſm is tolerated, but popery is not. 
ndabitants of the province conſiſt chiefly of Dutch, —— 
| dots Preſbyterians, German Calviniſts, Lutherans, Quakers, 
Fils, ge. who have their reſpective houſes of worſhip. The Dutch 
Merians being in ſubordination to the Claſſis of Amſterdam, 
all their youth who are intended for the miniſtry, to Holland 
"nation, as the Epiſcopalians do theirs to England. | 
llege was erected in New York, by act of parliament; about 
Rar 1755 ; but as the aſſembly was at that time divided into 


4 K Paryes, 


a : 7 * K — 
= 1 ks. "> ” : — 
* 3 rn * 
4 „ 


4s BRTT ISH AMERTIOA NA 
a parties, it was formed on a contracted plan, and has for th 
; fon. never met with the encouragement which might —_ 
expected for a public ſeminary in ſo populous a city. It conta 
preſent about twenty ſtudents. | ee 


— 9 —  — 


N E W JERSEY. 


by 


SITUATION AND ExTENT. 


Miles. Degrees. 
Length 160 39 and 43 North latitude, 
Breadth 60 between 74 and 76 Weſt longitude, 


Boundaries. ] N EW JERSEY is bounded on the Wel 

; South-Weſt, by Delaware river and Bay 

the South - Eaſt and Eaſt, by the Atlantic ocean; and by the $ 
which ſeparates Statin Iſland from the continent, and Hudſon 


—— 


* 2 - mn — * 
1 — ; — — rag Py 
p 7 9 a P * — E * {a * . — - - J ” 
7” F 


! ver on the North. | 
1 Diviſions. Counties. Chief towns. 
1 xdleſex J Perth-Amboy and New- Brut 
Faſt di Ir Monmouth | None 
m Elizabeth and Newark 
Contains Somerſet None 


Bergen [Bergen 
0 Burlington ( BuxLINGTON e . 


Glouceſter Glouceſter 
Salem Salem 
Weſt diviſion] Cumberland | Hopewell 
contains Cape May | a None 
Hunterdon Trenton 
| Mori | | Morris 
Suſſex } | None 


River: ] Theſe are Delaware, Raritan, and Paſſaick, on! 
ter of which is a remarkable cataract; the height of the rock 
whick the water falls is ſaid to be about 70 feet perpen 
the river there 80 yards broad. 


Climate, Soil, and Produce.] The climate is much the fame 
that of New Vork; the ſoil is various, at leaſt one fourth p 
the province is barren, ſandy land, producing pines an 
other parts in general are good, and produce wheah 
Indian corn, Cc. in great perfection. | 


* 


ben. BRITISH AMERICA. Gy 


en and Learning. ] The fate of religion here may be ſeen by 
vllowing liſt of the houſes for public worſhip throughout the 
ce, which was made in 1765, by a member of the council for 
þ OVINCE T - 
allege 1 eſtabliſhed at the town of Princeton, by governot 
der in 1746, and has a power of conferring the ſame degrees as 
or Cambridge. There were generally between 80 and 100 


| the extremities or it. 


p EN BT LV ANI X 


SITUATION AND EXTENT. 


2 Miles. ä Degrees. 
on Length 300 74 and 81 Weſt longitude. 
Breadth 45%! benen 39 and 44 North latitude. 


Iurdaries. ] B OUNDED by the country of the Iroquois, or 


ur Five Nations, on the North; by Delaware river, 


the South and Weſt, and contains the following counties: 


Counties, Chief towns. 
1 | N. lat. 40. 
a Philadelphia ä : PHILADELPHIA, 5 W. Jon, 75-20. 
Cheſter — Cheſter | 
Backs — — Newtown 
Berks — — Reading 
Northampton — Eaſton 
Lancaſter — Lancaſter 
York EOS ING York 
Cumberland — Carliſle - 
E bedford, a county Weſtward of the mountains upon the Ohio, 
= purchaſed from the Six Nations in 1768, by Mr Penn, and 
* eltabliſhed in 1771. 
bedes the above, there are the three ſollowing, 
Counties. 
hy — and Scots n 57 —_— , 
d duch Presbyterians — 12 Ragereens x 
rley 2 — 22 MINE 
— — 22 mn al 172 


_ 5 


nts here, who came from all parts of the continent, ſome even, 


_ 
— _,” "" 


YO. DS 


ich divides it from the Jerſeys, on the Eaſt; and by Maryland, 


2 — 9 
a. 


province adm irably ſuited to carry on an inland and foreign tra 


„% BRITISH AMERTCA; Pai 


5 
% 


Counties. 1 Chief towns, 
Newcaſtle ( Newcaſtle 

Kent 6 on Delaware 3 Dove 

- Suſſex *} | Lewes 


which form in ſome meaſure a diſtinct government, having 
ſembly of their own, though the ſame governor with the pro 
of Penſylvania. | | 


Rivers.) The rivers are Delaware, which is navigable for v 
of one ſort or other, more than 200 miles above Philadelphia. 
quehana, and Schuylkill, are alſo navigable a conſiderable wa 
the country. Theſe rivers, with the numerous bays and creek 
e. capable of containing the largeſt fleets, render 


Climate, Air, Soil, and Face of the country.] The face of 
country, air, ſoil, and produce, do not materially differ from thi 
New York. If there be any difference, it is in favour of this 
vince The air is ſweet and clear, the winters continue from 
cember till March, and are ſo extremely cold and ſevere, tha 
river Delaware, though very broad, is often froze over, 
months of July, Auguſt, and September, are almoſt intolerably 
but the country is refreſned by frequent cold breezes, It may 
marked in general, that in all parts of our plantations, from 
York to the ſouthern extremity, the woods are full of wild vin 
three or four ſpecies, all different ſrom thoſe we have in E 
But, whether from ſome fault in their nature, or in their clic 
or the ſoil where they grow, or what is much more probable, 
a fault in the planters, they have yet produced no wine that de 
to be mentioned, though the Indians from them make a fort of 
with which they regale themſelves. It may alſo be obſerved, 
the further Southward you go, the timber becomes -leſs com 
and rives eaſily; which property, as it renders it leſs ſerviceab 


ſhips, makes it more uſeful for ſtaves. 


— — — — —— . — — — — — — —  — — 


MART LAND. 


 SiTVATION AND ExTENT. 


: Miles. | Degrees. 
Length 140 75 and 80 Weſt long, 
Breadth 135 : between j 37 and 40 North lat, 


Boundaries. ROUNDED by Penſylvania, on the North 

D another part of Penſylvania, and the A 

ocean, on the Eaſt; by Virginia, on the South; and by the 
lachian mountains, on the Welt. | 


and BRITISH AMERICA 629” 


WT ..-1and is divided into two parts by the bay of Cheſapeak ; viz. 
| Pee and 2. The Weſtern diviſion. = 


Diviſions. Counties. Chief towns, 
[ Worceſter { Princeſs Anne 
Somerſet Snow Hill 


Wt diviſion | Dorſet | 
W contains the J Talbot „ 
counties of | Cecil „ 


Dorſet, or Dorcheſter 
Oxford : 


Queen Anne's——— Queen's Town 
Kent — — Cheſter, 
St Mary's county St Mary's 


Briſtol 

Maſterkout᷑ 
Abington 
AxxAroris, N. lat. 39. 
W. lon. 76-50. 


+ | Charles county — 
Prince George county 

e weſidiviſion j Calvert county — 

contains Arundel county — 


r — — — . —— 
— 7 


Baltimore county Baltimore. 


Frederic county — 


Rivers] The chief are Patowmac, Pocomoac, Patuxent, Chep« 
Severn and Saſſafras. 


Face of the Country, Air, Soil, and Produce.) In theſe particu. 
this province has nothing particular by which it may be diſtin- 
led from thoſe already deſcribed. The hills in the inland coun- 
are of ſo eaſy aſcent, that they rather ſeem an artificial than 2 

ral production. The vaſt number of rivers diffuſes fertility 
gh the ſoil, which is admirably adapted to the rearing of to- 
co, (which is the ſtaple commodity of that country) hemp, In- 
n corn and grain, which they now begin to cultivate in prefer- 
* to tobacco. 5 


— — — 
— . OOO ——— — — — — j — — — — x ̃ .c-1lkxʒ . inn nn — _ * — — — — 


I. R G I N I A 


SITUATICN AND EXTENT. 


Miles, Degrees. 
g, Length 750 | 75 and go Weſt long. 
at. Breadth = : between 36 and 40 North — 


Lorber. ROUNDED by the river Patowmac, which di- 
eh vides it from Maryland, on the North-Eaſt ; by 
the Atantic ocean, on the Eaſt; by Carolina, on the South; and 
le river Miſſiſippi, on the Weſt. 


\ The 


— Ü.. w .. — 2 


— — 


—— 


— 


ll hy.” 40 


0 * 1 


Ihe cultivated part of this extenſive province is divided int { 
counties, which are for the moſt part named after thoſe of B 
land. . N 7-2 


| ia 

you paſs a ſtreight between two points of n ; 
Virginia, which opens a paſſage into the bay of Cheſapeak, on 
the largeſt and ſafeſt in the whole world ; for it enters he 6 
near 300 miles from the South to the North, is about 18 miles b 
for a conſiderable way, and ſeven where it is narroweſt, the wate 
molt places being nine fathoms deep. This bay through its w 
extent, receives a vaſt number of navigable rivers from the 
both of Maryland and Virginia. From the latter, beſides othe 
leſs note, it receives James River, York river, the Rappahan 
and the Potowmac ; theſe are not only navigable for large 
into the heart of the country, but have ſo many creeks, and re 
ſuch a number of ſmaller navigable rivers, that Virginia is wit] 
all manner of doubt the country of the world of the moſt cony 
ent navigation. The back country behind the Allegany moun 
is every where watered by the Ohio, and the numerous branche 
that noble ſtream. "WY 


Capes, Bays, and Rivers.] In failing to Vi 


Face of the Country.] The face of this country is ſo low tot 
the ſea, that you are very near the ſhore, before you can diſc 
land from the maſt-head. You travel 100 miles into the cout 
without meeting with a hill, which is nothing uncommon on 
extenfive coaſt of North America. 


Air and Climate.) In Summer the heats here are exceſſive, 
not without refreſhing breezes from the ſea. The weather is cha 
able, and the changes ſudden and violent. Their winter froſts e 

on without the leaſt warning. To a warm day, there ſometi 
ſucceeds ſuch an intenſe cold in the evening as to freeze ove 
largeſt rivers. 

The air and ſeaſons here depend very much upon the win 
to heat and cold, dryneſs and moiſture. In winter they 1 

* fine clear air, and dry, which renders it very pleaſant. 

ſpring is about a month earlier than in England; in April 
have frequent rains; in May and June, the heat increaſes; 
the Summer is much like ours, being refreſhed with gentle br 
from the ſea, that riſe about nine o'clock, and decreaſe and inc 
as the ſun riſes or falls. In July and Auguſt theſe breezes e 
and the air becomes ſtagnant, and violently hot; in Septembe 
weather generally changes, when they have heavy and frequent 
which occaſion all the train of diſeaſes incident to a moilt clut 
particularly agues and intermitting fevers. They have freq 
thunder and lightning, but it rarely does any miſehief. 


Soil and Produce.) Towards the ſea-ſhore, and the banks c 
rivers, the ſoil of Virginia conſiſts of a dark rich mould, whi 
many years, without manure, returns plentifully whatever 10 
mitted to it. At a diſtance from the water there is a lightneb 


and BRITISH AMERICA, 63 
-.f« in the ſoil, which, however, is of a generous nature, and 
ved by kindly ſun, yields corn and tobacco extremely well. 
Wnt: foreſts are covered with all forts of lofty trees; and no un- 
0d or bruſhes grow beneath; ſo that people travel with eaſe _ 
oh the foreſts on horſeback, under a fine ſhade, to defend 
= {rom the ſun 3 the plains are enamelPd with flowers and flow- 
vo ſhrubs of the richeſt colours, and moſt fragrant ſcent. Silk 
n ſpontaneous in many places, the fibres of which are as ſtrong 
emp. Medicinal herbs and roots, particularly the ſnake-root, 
the ginſeng of the Chineſe, are here in great plenty. There is no 
of grain but might be cultivated to advantage. The inhabitants, 
ver, before their difference with Britain, were ſo engroſſed with 
aure of the tobacco plant, that they thought, if corn ſufficient 
beir ſupport was reared, they did enough in this way. But flax 
{hemp are produced not only for their own couſumption, but for 
rt, though not in ſuch quantities as might be expected from the 
pre of the ſoil, admirably fitted for producing this commogrtty. 


hinals.] There were neither horſes, cows, ſheep, nor hogs, in 
rica, before they were carried thither by the Europeans; but 
" they are multiplied ſo extremely, that many of them, particular- 
n Virginia, and the Southern colanies; run wild, Beef and 
ſold here, before the civil war, from one penny to two-pence 
pund ; their fatteſt pullets at ſixpence a- piece; chickens, at three 
four ſhillings, a dozen; geeſe, at ten-pence; and turkeys, at 
Iteen pence a- piece. But fiſh, and wild towl, were (till chea 
le ſeaſon, and deer fold from five to ten ſhillings a - piece. This 
mate may ſerve for the other American colonies, where provi» 
ks were equally plentiful and cheap, and in ſome ſtill lower. Be- 
the animals tranſported from Europe, thoſe natural to the 
utry are deer, of which there are great numbers, a ſort of pan- 
ror tyger, bears, wolves, foxes, and racoons. Here is likewiſe 
ingular animal called the opoſſum, which ſeems to be the wood- 
mentioned by Charlevoix, in his hiſtory of Canada. It is about 
ue of a cat, and beſides the belly common to it with other ani- 
ls, it has another peculiar to itſelf, which hangs beneath the for - 
4 This belly has a large aperture, towards the hinder legs; whick 
mers 2 great number of teats on the uſual part of the com- 
belly, Upon theſe, when the female of this creature conceives, 
young are formed, and there they hang like fruit upon the ſtalk, 
ll they grow in bulk and weight to their appointed ſiae; then 
drop off, and are received into the falſe belly, from which they 
Nt at pleaſure, and in which they take refuge when any danger 
atens them. In Virginia there are all ſorts of tame and wild 
„They have the nightingale, called from the country, whoſe 
ge is crimſon and blue; the mocking bird, thought to excel 
Mers in his own note, and including that of every one; the 
bing bird, the ſmalleſt of all the winged creation, and by far 
wolt beautiful, all arrayed in ſcarlet, green and gold. It ſips 
ev from the flowers, which is all its nouriſhment, but is too 
Katt to be brought alive into England. 


L 522 J 


# 
® i 
. 
* 
7 
* 


Noz Ta and Soura CAROLINA, WIT GEORG 


U 


\ 


S1TUATION AND ExTENT, 


2 


: | Miles. Degrees, 
q 76 and 91 Weſt longitude, 
1 Benth 2 18 N 12 and 37 North lati — 


Boundaries. ROUNDED by Virginia, on the North; | 
Atlantic ocean, on the Eaſt ; by the rival 


John, which ſeparates Georgia from Florida, on the South; 
by the Miſſiſippi, on the W 
Diviſions. Counties. 


North Carolina con- 2 — 


Divided into p 
but have no toy 


' Clarendon in part] ( St James 


tains the counties 4 Bath county, 5 
be middle diviſion, | Craven county [= Chriſt-Church 
. 


of — Clarendon in part 


or South Carolina, Berkley county 
contains the coun- Culleton county 
ties of — 


cal row, N 
79-12. N. lat. 32 
Port- Royal. 


tonſiſ 


—— — 


——— — Cs CI 
* 4 pay wr Sn fa o 8 


Granville county 


. SY . SAVANNAH, N.! - 
= The South diviſion . 55. W. lon. , . 
contains only * Frederica ul t 
| Puriſburgh, thay 


n lt 


|; it be 
4 Nivers. ] Theſe are the Roanoke, or Albemarle river; Þ j jie 
4 Neus, Cape Fera, or Clarendon river : Pedee, Santee, Sara ö ſpec 
1 Alatamaha, or George river, and St Mary's, which divides ede 
gia from Florida: all which rivers riſe in the Apalachian u ben it | 
=. tains, and running Eaſt, fall into the Atlantic ocean. = tisn 
1 parts are watered by the Cherokees, Yaſous, Mobile, A od i 
4 the pearl river, and many other noble ſtreams which xp b to 
Miſſiſippi or the gulph of Mexico. * 

fil, in 

Seas, Bays, and Capes.) The only ſea bordering on this cn 

is that of the Atlantic ocean; which is fo ſhallow near the Qi: roc 

that a ſhip of any great burden cannot approach it, except u i; 0 

few places. There has not yet been found one good harvolliice { 

North Carolina z the beſt are thoſe of Roanoke, at the mouth "We: ©; 


bemarle river, and Pamptico. In South Carolina, there en 
harbours of Winyaw, or George-town, Charles«Town, 


BRITISH AMERICA, 633 
and Alta 


i, In Georgia, the mouths of the rivers Savannah 
form good harbours. 

The moſt remarkable promontories are, Cape Hatteras, in 35 deg 
minutes North lat. Cape Fear to the South of it, and Cape Car- 
+ till further South. | 


= 


nate and Air. ] There is not any conſiderable difference between 

dimate of theſe countries. In general, it agrees with that of 
ina; but, where they differ, it is much to the advantage of Ca- 
nm, The Summers indeed are of a more intenſe heat than in 
"io, but the Winters are milder and ſhorter. The climate of 
vlina, like all American weather, is ſubject to ſudden tranſitions, 
n heat to cold, and from cold to heat; but not to ſuch violent 
ities as Virginia, The Winters are feldom ſevere enough to 
r any conſiderable water, affecting only the mornings and even- 
the frolts have never ſufficient-ſtrength to reſiſt the noon - day 
1: that many tender plants, which do not ſtand the Winter of 
Ninia, flouriſh in Carolina, for they have oranges in great plen= 
war Charles-Town, and excellent in their kinds, both ſweet 
[fours 


til, Produce, and face of the Country.] In this reſpect too there 
jconfiderable chincidence between theſe countries and Virginia: 
Carolinas, however, in the fertility of nature, have the advan- 
but Georgia is not of near ſo good a ſoil as the other provin- 
x The whole country where it is not cleared, is in a manner one 
. The trees are almoſt the ſame in every reſpect with thoſe 

Iced in Virginia; and by the different ſpecies of theſe, the f 
uity of the ſoil is eaſily known. The land in Carolina is eably 
kred, as there is little or no underwood, and the foreſts moſt- 
wnliſt of tall trees at a conliderable diſtance. "Thoſe grounds 
ich bear the oak, the walnut, and the hickory, are extremes 
krtile; they are of a dark ſand, intermixed with loam; and 
ul their lands abound with nitre, it is a long time before it 
ahaulted; for here they never uſe any manure. The pine 
n is the worſt of all; this is an almoſt perfectly white ſand, 
t bears the pine-tree, and ſome other uſeful plants natur- 
5 yielding good profit in pitch, tar, and turpentine. When 
ſpecies of land is cleared, for two er three years together, 
roduces very good crops of Indian corn and peaſe ; and, 
kn it lyes low, and is flooded, it even anſwers for rice, Bur 
tis molt fortunate for this province is, that this worſt part of 
Yard is favourable to a ſpecies of the moſt valuable of all its pro- 
to one of the kinds of indigo. The low, rich, ſwampy grounds, 
their great ſtaple, rice. The country near the ſea is much the 
fl, in many parts little better than an unhealthy ſalt marſh ; for 
ina is all an even plain for 80 miles from the ſea, not a hill, 
rarock, nor ſcarce even a pebble to be met with. But the coun- 
þ 4 you advance in it, improves continually; and at 100 miles 
ace from Charles. Town, where it begins to grow hilly, the ſoil 
a prodigions fertility, fitted for every purpoſe of human lite ; 
au any thing be imagined more pleaſant to the eye than the 
| FL © variegated 


4 # . 1 „ — p * , : 
* \ o a7 WR TH 


1 


1 


624 BRITISH AMERICA, G41 

' variegated diſpoſition of this back country. Here the air is pure 
wholeſome, and the Summer heat much more temperate than in 
flat ſandy coaſt. 7 | 

In Carolina, the vegetation of every kind of plant is incre, 

quick. The climate and ſoil have ſomething in them ſo kindly, 
the letter, when lett to itſelf, naturally throws out an immenſe ar 
tity, of flowers and flowering ſhrubs. All the European plants 
rive at perfection here beyond that in which their native country 
fords them. Wheat grows extremely well in the back parts, 
yields a prodigious increaſe. | : 

The chief productions of theſe valuable provinces appear to 
vines, wheat, rice, Indian corn, barley, oats, peaſe, beans, he 
flax, cotton, tobacco, indigo, olives, orange, citron, cypreſs, 
ſafras, oak, walnut, caſſia, and pine-trees z white mulberry· 
for feeding ſilk worms; ſarſaparilla, and pines which yield tur 
tine, roſin, tar, and pitch. There is a kind of tree from 
runs an oil of extraordinary virtue for curing wounds; and and 
which yields a balm, thought to be little inferior to that of M 
There are other trees beſides theſe, that yield gums. The Ca 
nas produce prodigious quantities of honey, of which they mak 
cellent ſpirits, and mead as good as Malaga fack. Of all theſe, 
three great ſtaple commodities were, indigo, rice, and the prod 
of the pine. Nothing ſurprizes an European more at firſt f 
than the fize of the trees here, as well as in Virginia and othe 
merican countries. Their trunks are often from 50 to 70 feet h 
without a branch or limb; and frequently above 36 feet in cir 
ference. Of theſe trunks, when hollowed, the people of Cha 
Town as well as the Indians, make canoes, which ſerve tot 


* port proviſions and other goods from place to place, and ſo 
| them are ſo large, that they will carry 30 or 40 barrels of pi 
4 though formed of one entire piece of timber. Of theſe are like 

«i made curious pleaſure · boats. 


5 Animals.] The original animals of this eountry, do not d 
; much from thoſe of Virginia; but in Carolina they have a lbllg 
er variety of beautiful fowls. All the animals of Europe are 

in plenty; black cattle are multiplied prodigiouſly ; to have 

| cows is very common, but ſome have a thouſand or upva 
Theſe ramble all day at pleaſure in the foreſts ;- but their calve 

ing ſeparated and kept in fenced paſture, the cows return e 

4 evening to them. The hogs range in the fame manner, and re 
like the cows ; theſe are very numerous, and many. run quite 
as well as horned eattle and horſes in the woods. Ir is furpr 

that the cattle ſhould have increaſed ſo quickly fince their being 

N imported from Europe, while there are ſuch numbers of wo 


5 tigers, and panthers, conſtantly ranging the woods and ſa 
. We have already obſerved, that theſe animals are leſs ravenous 


the beaſts of Africa and Aſia; they very ſeldom attempt to kik 
ther calves or foals in America, and when attacked, their 0 
make a vigorous defence. | | 


| / Chief Towns.) The only town in either of the Carolinas we 
ef notice is Charles: Town, the metropolis, in South - Carolina,“ 


* 


4, BRITISH AMERICA 635 


p 
Tue 


ve, beauty, and trade, may be conſidered as one of the firſt in 
> America. It is admirably ſituated on the confluence of two 


own, and for boats and large canoes near 40. The harbour is 
in every reſpect, but that of a bar, which hinders veſſels of 
« than 200 tuns burden from entering. The town is regularly 
pretty ſtrongly fortified by nature and art; the ſtreets are well 
e houſes are large and well built, ſome of them are of brick, 
1 athers of wood, but all of them handſome and elegant, and 
is extremely high. The ſtreets are wide and' ſtraight, interſec- 
be each other at right angles; thoſe running Eaſt and Weſt ex- 
about a mile from one river to the other. It contains abent 1000 
us, and was the ſeat of the governor, and the place of meeting 
he aſſembly. Its neighbourhood is beautiful beyond deſcription, 


nts are rich and well bred ; the people are ſhewy and expenſive 
heir dreſs and way of living; ſo that every thing conſpires to 
te this by much the livelieſt, the lovelieſt, and politeſt place, as 
zone of the richeſt too in all America. 

The mouths of the rivers in North Carolina form but ordinary 
hours, and do not admit, except one at Cape Fear, veſſels of, 
we 70 or Bo tuns. This lays a weight upon their trade by the 
nce of lighterage. Edenton was formerly the capital of North- 
wlina, which is no more than a trifling village. 


eee ee —— —— NCT — CCB — OO ———_——>——————— yo . T —— ae — e—_— CE —  — 


EAST AND WEST FLORIDA, 


S1TUATION AND EXTENT. 


Miles, Degrees. 


Length 500 'C 80 and g1 Weſt longitude. 
Breadth Wo de 3, 5 and 32 North latitude. 


Cundaries.] T HIS country, which was ceded by Spain to 
Great Britain by the late treaty of peace, and 


des a part of Louiſiana, is now divided into the governments of 
and Weſt Florida. 


ber.] Theſe are the Miſſiſippi, which forms the Weſtern boun- 
7 of Florida, and is one of the fineſt in the world, as well as the 
Fit; for including its turnings and windings, it is ſuppoſed to 
«courſe of 4500 miles; but its mouths are in a manner choaked 
With ſands and ſhoals, which deny acceſs to veſſels of any conſi: 
le burden; there being, according to Mitchel's map, only 
e feet water over the bar (captain Pitman ſays ſeventeen) at 
4 a” the 


gable rivers, one of which is navigable for ſhips 20 miles above 


ral handſome equipages are kept here. The planters and mer- 


* 


6365 BRITISH AME RICX mw 
the principal entrance. Within the bar there is 100 fathom wa 
and the channel is every where deep, and the current gentle, exd 
at a certain ſeaſon, when, like the Nile, it overflows and becoy 
extremely rapid, It is, except at the entrance already mentio 
every where free from ſhoals and cataracts, and navigable for e 
of one kind or other almoſt to its ſource. The Mobille, the A 
lachicola, and St John's rivers, are alſo large and noble ſiream 


= 


Bays and Capes.) The principal bays are, St Bernard's, Aſc 
ſion, Mobille, Penſacola, Dauphin, Joſeph, Apalaxy, Spiritu 8 
- to, and Charles Bay. . 

The chief capes are, Cape Blanco, Samblas, Anclote, $t 
guſtine, and Cape Florida, at the extremity of the Peninſula, v 
terminates the Britiſh America Southward. | 


Air and Climate ] It is very difficult to reconcile the various 
counts that have'been given of theſe particulars in this country, 
people who obtained grants of lands in Florida, and were deſit 
to ſettle or fell them, repreſented the whole country as a Can; 
and St Auguſtine, in Eaſt Florida, as the Montpelier of Ameri 
they tell us, that the climate of Florida is an exceeding agree: 
medium between the ſcorching heat of the tropics, and the pinch 
cold of the Northern latitudes ; that there is indeed a change of 
ſeaſons, but it is a moderate one: in November. and Decemb 
many trees loſe their leaves, vegetation goes on flowly, and 
Winter is perceived, but ſo mild, that ſnow is never ſeen there; 
the tendereſt plants of the Weſt- Indies, ſuch as the plantain, 
allegator-pear-tree, the banana, the pine-apple, the ſugar-cane, 
remain unhurt during the Winter, in the gardens of St Augullu 
that the fogs and dark gloomy weather ſo common in England, 
unknown in this country, And though at the equinoxes, eſpec 
the Autumnal, the rains ſall very heavy every day for ſome we 
together, yet, when the thower is over, the ſłky immediately cit 
up, and all is calm and ſerene. | 
- Others have repreſented this very coaſt as the grave ard bury! 
Place of all ſtrangers who are ſo unhappy as to go there, affirmi 
as a truth, the well-known tory propagated ſoon after the laſt pea 
that upon the landing of our troops to take poſſeſſion of Horida, 
Spaniards aſked them “ what crimes have you been ;-uilty ol 
home? We lhall take the liberty to obſerve on this head, t 
though the air here is very warm, the heats are much allayed 
cool breezes from the ſeas which inviron and waſh a confider: 
part of this country. The inland countries towards the North 
a little of the roughneſs of the North-Weſt wind, which, mor 
lefs, diffuſes its chilling breath over the whole continent of Nc 
America, carrying froſt and ſnow many degrees more to the 50 
ward in theſe regions, than the North-Eaſt wind does in Europe 

That the air of Florida is pure and wholeſome, appears from 
ſize, vigour, and longevity of the Floridian Indians, who, in 
reſpects far exceed their more Southern - neighbours the Me ric 
That when the Spaniards quitted St Auguſtine, many of them 
of great age, ſome above 90. Since it came into the hands 7 


ri 


2 BRITISH AMERICA 637 
uin, many gentlemen in a deep conſumption have aſcribed the re- 
ry Of their health to that climate; and it is a certain fact, that 
\ ninth regiment, ſtationed on different parts of the coaſt, did not 


a fingle man by natural death in the ſpace of twenty months. 


til, Produdtions, and Face of the Country.] Many of the diſadvan- 
5 indiſcriminately imputed to the ſoil of the whole country, ſhould 
confined to Eaſt Florida, which indeed, near the ſea, and 40 
% back is flat and ſandy. But even the country round St Au- 
din, in all appearance the worſt in the province, is far from be- 
unfruitful ; it produces two crops of Indian corn a year; the 
nen vegetables are in great perfection; the orange and lemon 
grow here, without cultivation, to a larger fize, and produce 
er {ruit than in Spain and Portugal. The inland country to- 
xs the hills is extremely rich and fertile, producing ſpontaneouſ- 
he fruits, vegetables, and gums, that are common to Georgia 
Uthe Carolinas, and is likewiſe favourable to the rearing ot Eu- 
jan productions. There is not, on the whole continent of Ame- 
a, any place better-qualified by nature to afford not only all the 
zſaries of life, but alſo all the pleaſures of habitation, than that 
t of Weſt Florida, which lyes upon the banks of the Miſſiſippi. 
from the climate of Florida, and ſome ſpecimens ſent home, there 
raſon to expe, ,that cotton, ſngar, wine, and filk, will grow 
as well as in Perſia, India, and China, which are in the ſame 
tudes, This country alſo produces rice, indigo, ambergris, co- 
heal, amethyſts, turquoiſes, lapis lazuli, and other precious ſtones z 
per, quick- ſilver, pit-coal, and iron ore: pearls are-found in 
wt abundance on the coaſt of Florida: mahogony grows on the 
untern parts of the Peninſula, but inferior in ſize and quality to 
kt of Jamaica, The animal creation are here ſo numerous, that 
may purchaſe a good ſaddle-horſe, in exchange for goods of 
ſhillings value prime coſt ; and there are inſtances of horſes be- 
{exchanged for a hatchet per head. 


ry! Phulation, Commerce, and chief Towns.] Notwithſtanding the lux- 
ri ucy of the ſoil, the ſalubrity of the air, the cheapneſs and plenty 
pea proviſions, the encouragement of the Britiſh goverament, and 
da, £ vile meaſures taken by the governors ſent thither to ſettle theſe 
e ces, the number of Engliſh inhabitants was for ſome time 
!, OF" inconſiderable, and the increaſe of population extremely flow, 
red WP that proceeding from unavoidable cauſes. 

der en we conſider the long and deſtructive wars which the mother 
th utry has ſupported by ſea and land againſt the houſe of Bour- 
jor * the emigrations to our other ſettlements in North-America, 
N fi and Weſt-Indies ; the numerous manufactures carrying 
90 t home ; and the prodigious ſhipping employed in tranſporting 
open erery corner of the globe; it would appear, that, inſtead 
om Ropling our colonies, we wanted a ſupply of hands at home 
ni 0! courſe, the acquiſition of a new territory, without people 
0 Pant it, muſt be an incumbrance to the mother country, eſpeci- 


70 14 the civil and military eſtabliſhments of both Floridas are ſaid 
+ al the goyernment near 100,000 l. per annum. It is probable, 
t however, 


N 222 * — , » 1 PE) LIT 1— 2 
5 TA al PR 9 TE 1 I. 465 * J L Yo 3 Wh . 
* 9 ry * * 1 a N 5 q | 4 . p ry * * L 4 4 \ 
4 N y * 
; DIET ee eee 
i OED 
F 1 1 1 1 * . * : 4 L 
1 * 4 5. : p . * * * * * , = 
A. = f * 
. * = N : - 
1 4 EI * 


% 
ww 
* 
- 
18 P 
4 Ig ", — „ 
> 2 * 
4B 
U 
* 
3 
8 
4 
* 


a * 3 1823 BAITIZA AUT IIA As N 
. 5442 wein ED 
buowever, that the preſent war with the Narthernieolokics, & 
* © the means of increaſing the population of Florida very conſid 
as many families will undoubtedly chuſe to take refuge there 
der to avoid the calamities of waer. £4 
The chief town in Weſt Florida is Penſacola; North latirn, 
22. Weſt longitude 87-20, which is fituated within the bay 
ſame name, on a ſandy ſhore that can only be approached by 
veſſels. The road is, however, one of the bet in all the 5 
Mexico, in which veſſels may lye in ſafety againiFevery kind of 
being ſurrounded by land on every fide. - | 
St Auguſtine, the capital of Eaſt Florida, North tatitude 
Weſt longitude 81-12. runs along the ſhore, and is -of an « 
- from, divided by four regular ſtreets, croſſing each othet at 
angles. The town is for.ified with baſtions, and incloſed 1 
ditch. It is likewiſe defended by a caftle, which is called Fe 
John; and the whole is well furniſhed with cannon. At thi 
trance into the harbour are the North and South breakers, 
form two channels, whoſe bars, at low tides, have eight feet 1 
The climate and ſoil are extremely favourable for the raifi 
fſilk. Some attempts have indeed been made in Carolina aud ( 
gia, where in one place the raiſing of ſilk is become a kindof 
commodity ; but there the worms are often injured by the 
mornings, at other times they are benumbed and made ſick 
want of warmth, and ſometimes actually deſtroyed; an inco 
ence which is alſo frequently experienced in Italy: but the Wi 
Southern climate of Florida has placed this tender inſect beyooln 
reach of ſuch diſaſters : and experience will no doubt thew, thang 
air and climate of this country is as favourable to the IH. 
it is to the mulberry-tree on which it feeds, and which grow 
in its utmoſt luxuriancy. The numerous vines teo, Which gre 
ſpontaneouſly in the foreſts of this country, prognoliicate, t 
produce of Florida may, with proper cultivation, gladden the 
of Britons in future ages. e 


— . ⁰⁰ 7 — —— ⏑ — ———— —— —VUͤ;——— ——— ꝗ u. ——— 


. 


WEST INDIES 


ETWEEN the two continents of America, ye aWnuu 

able multitude of iſlands, which we call the W 
which, ſuch as are worth cultivation, now belong to WyeSure 
powers, as Great Britain, Spain, France, Holland and Dent 
The climate in all our Weſt-India iſlands, is nearly the ee! 
ing for thoſe accidental differences which the ſeveral ſituationt 
qualities of the lands themſelves produce. As they yeme 
tropics, and that the ſun goes quite over their heads, paſſing 
them to the North, and never returning further from π ů 
than about zo degrees to the South, they are continually 


Ml 

'.* 

| 91 
2 


Cc 


—— 


AIM. 4 | 5 Y 
5x I; 


Great | Antilles | 
CARTB E it 7 


SEA 


a 1 5 
— — 7 8 
Vinm * , 


% 
>» 


* 


A 
8 F 
1 
7 


* — 2 
jor * 


But riss Au rAteAN ISLAN OSG. 639 * 
* xtreme of an heat, which would be intollerable, if the trade- + 
I, riſing gradually as the ſun gathers ſtrength, did not blow in 
dem from the ſea, and refreth the air in ſuch a manner, as to 
&Þ them to attend their concerns even under the meridian fun. 
the other hand, as the night advances, a breeze begins to be 
ed, which blows ſmartly from the land, as it were from its 
towards the ſea, to all points of the compaſs at once. 
che ſame remarkable Providence in the diſpoſing of things, it 
hat when the ſun has made a great progreſs towards the tropic 
Wancer, and becomes in a manner vertical, he draws after him 
Sa vaſt body of clouds, as fhield them from his direct beams; 
difolving into rain, cool the air, and refreſh the country, thirſ- 
with the long drought, which commonly reigns from the begin- 
of January to the latter end of May. f | 
rains in the Weſt-Indies {and we may add in the Eaft- Indies} 
by no means ſo moderate as with us. Our heavieſt rains are but 
comparatively. They are rather floods of water, poured from 
clouds with a 164% 01m impetuoſity; the rivers riſe in a mo- 
it; new rivers and lakes are formed, and in a ſhort time all th 
country is under water. Hence it is, that the rivers whic 
their ſource within the tropics, ſwell and overflow their banks 
certain ſeaſon ; and ſo miſtaken were the ancients in their idea 
bike torrid zone, which they imagined to be dried and ſeorched 
with a continual and fervent heat, and to be for that reaſon un- 
pbitable : when in reality, ſome of the largeft riversof the world 
i their courſe within its limits, and the moiſture is one of the 
teſt inconveniences of the climate in ſeveral places. 
The rains make the only diſtinction of ſeaſons in the Welt- Indies; 
trees are green the whole year round; they have no cold, no 
no ſnows, and but rarely ſome hail ; the ſtorms of hail are, 
er, very violent when they happen, and the hailſtones very 
Wand heavy. Whether it be owing to this moiſture, which a- 
does not ſeem to be a ſufficient cauſe, or to a greater quantity 
| fulphureous acid, which predominates in the air of this country, 
of all kinds, that are ſubject to the action of ſuch cauſes, ruſt 
(canker in a very ſhort time: and this cauſe, perbaps as much as 
eat itſelf, contributes to make the climate of the Weſt-Indies un» 
ay and unpleaſant to an European conſtitution, 
Ris in the rainy ſeaſon (principally in the month of 1 
rarely in July and September) that they are aſſaulted by hur · 
Wes ; the moſt terrible calamity to which they are ſubje (as well 
de people in the Eaſt-Indies) from the climate z it is a ſudden 
nolent ſtorm of wind, rain, thunder, and lightning, attended 
a furious ſwelling of the ſeas, and ſometimes with an earth - 
Ke; in ſhort, with every circumſtance, which the elements can 
able, that is terrible and deſtructive. Firſt, they ſee as the pre- 
do the enſuing havock, whole fields of ſugar canes whirled in- 
le air, and ſcattered over the face of the country. The _— 
es of the foreſt are torn up by the roots, and driven about like 
be ; their windmills are ſwept away in a moment; their uten- 
the fixtures, the ponderous copper-boilers, and ſtills of ſeveral 


med weight, are wrenched from the ground, and battered to 
| pieces . 


x 
| . 
1 
* 
f 


\ f | * 
- Po - * 
x — 
,»* . wh 

a» + 
2 


#- Gan Brx1iTi88 AMERICAN ISLAND 


pon them with an irreſiſtible violence. 


it was made in China, in very early times, from whence we had 
firſt knowledge of it; but the Portegueſe were the firſt who culti 


FFF 


a mt. $6. 4 0 
* - a * * 
8 - — N 
* w 


” F. 1 
* f . 8 
> , 


pieces ;*their houſes are no protection, the roofs are Ito 
blaſt ; whilſt the rain, which in an hour riſes five * 2 


| 


The hurricane comes on either in the quarters, or at the 
change of the moon. If it comes at the full moon, obſerve 


figns. That day you will ſee the ſky very turbulent; you will n 
ſerve the the ſun more red than at other times: you will perceiz 1 
dead calm, and the hills clear of all thoſe clouds and miſts w 4 


uſually hover about them, In the, clefts of the earth, and in 
wells, you hear a hollow rumbling ſound, like the ruſhing 

eat wind. At night the ſtars ſeem much larger than uſual, 
1 with a ſort of burs ; the North - Welt ſky has a black 
menacing look; the ſea emits a ſtrong ſmell, and riſes into 
waves, often without any wind; the wind inſelf now forſakes its 
Ready Eaſterly ſtream, and ſhifts about to the Weſt ; from when 
ſometimes blows with intermiſſions violently and irregularly fo 
bout two hours at a time. The moon herſeif is ſurrounded wit 
great bur, and ſometimes the ſun has the ſame appearance. Tt 
are ſigns which the Indians of theſe iſlands taught our planters, 
which they can prognoſticate the approach of an hurricane, 

The grand ſtaple commodity of the Weſt-Indies is ſugar; | 
commodity was not at all known to the Greeks and Romans, 


ted it in America, and brought it into requeſt, as one of the mi 
rials of a very univerſal luxury in Europe. It is not ſettled whet 
the cane, from which this ſubſtance is extracted, be a native 


America, or brought hither to their colony of Brazil, by the! T' 
tugueſe, from India and the coalt of Africa; but however 
matter be, in the beginning they made the moſt, as they 


do the beſt ſugar which comes to market in this part of the wo 
The juice within the ſugar cane is the moſt lively, eleg 
and leaſt cloying ſweet in nature; and which, ſucked raw, has} 
ved extremely nutritive and wholeſome. From the molaſſes rut 
diſtilled, and from the ſcummings of the ſugar, a meaner ſpin 
procured. The tops of the cane, and the leaves which grows 
the joints, make very good provender for their cattle, and the 
fuſe of the cane, after grinding, ſerves for fire; ſo that no pi 
this excellent plant is without its uſe. _— 
To particularize the.commodities proper for the Weſt-Indian 
ket, would be to enumerate all the neceſſaries, conveniencies, 
luxuries of life; for they have nothing of their own but cotton, 
fee, tropical fruits, ſpices, and the commodities already mentiot 
Traders there make a very large profit upon all they ſell, butt 
the numerous ſhipping conſtantly arriving from Europe, and a 
tinual' ſucceſſion of new adventurers, each of whom carrying 
more or leſs as a venture, the Weſt.India market is frequently 
ſtocked 3 money muſt be raiſed, and goods are ſometimes fol 
prime coaſt or under. But thoſe who can afford to Rtoretheir gi 
and wait for a better market, acquire fortunes equal to any 
planters. All kinds of handicraſtſmen, eſpecially carpenter 
layers, braziers and coopers, get very great encouragemell- 


* 


* 1 
: - 


BAZTIs AMERICAN TSLANDS: 64y 


. the misfortpas of the Weſt-Indies, that phyſicians and ſurgeons 
WW. oucdo che planter and merchapt, in accumulating rice. 
WT Before the late war, chere were allowed. to be in our We lie 
zo. O00 negro ares; and ppon the higheſt calculation, the 


a ſome writers have endeavoured to accoupt far, 
Wh the enterprizing : 

ons concurrent cauſes, duc ur | 
greed very much. That the diſpofitiqn of the Wen Indians them · 


ſulurrections and plots, many families employ 25 or 30 negroes 
y menial ſervants, "who are infinjtely the moſt dangerous of the 
ber and in caſe of any inſurre@ion, they haye it more iff their 
err to rike a ſudden and fataliblow. | 
THE iſlands of the Indies lye in the ſorm of a bow, or ſe- 
rircle, Werbe MY fro: —_— of Florida North, to the 
Wer: Oronoque, in the main continent of South America, Some 
chem the Caribbees, eee 7 4 this is a 
pn that moſt groe Wee ne to, the Leeward Iſlands, Sailors 
kinguiſh them into Windward and Leeward iſlands, with regard 


de uſual courſes of ſhips, from Old 6 x_S or the Canaries, to 
a | hello. The 


tive agena, or New Spain and Parto geographical ta- 
aud maps, diſtinguiſh them into great and little Antilles, 


— 


m London, and between 17 and 18 North latitude. From the 
Lit ind Weſt it is in jength about 140 miles, and in the middle 
ut bo in the breadth, growing leſs towards each end, in the form 


egg. i Is: e a 382 
This iſland is inter ſected with a ridge of ſteep rocks tumbled by 
þ frequent earthquakes in a flupendous manner upon one another. 
ſiee rocks, though containing no ſoil on their ſurface, are covered 
hb a great variety of beautiful trees, flouriſhing in a perpetual 
rug; they are nouriſhed by the rains, Which orten fall, or the 
s which continually brood on the mountains, and which, their 
Ks penetrating the crannies of the rocks, induſtriquſſy ſeek. out 
r their own ſupport. From the rocks iſſue a vaſt number of ſmall 
75 of pure wholeſome water which tumble down in cataracts, and 
Fether with the ſtupendous height of the mountains, and the bright 
ure If the trees, through which they flow, farm a molt delight 
| landſcape. On each ſide of this great chain of mountains, are 
ves of lower ones, which diminiſh. as they remove from it. On 
& colfce grows in great plenty. The vallies or plains between 
ke ridpes, are level beyond what is ordinary in moſt other conn- 
and the ſoil is prodigiguſly fertile. 5 
The longeſt day in Summer is about thirteen hours, and the ſhort- 
u Winter about eleven; but the moſt uſual diviſions of the fea- 
4 M Z ſons 


Jamaica lyes between the 9 5th and th degrees of Weſt loogitade 


N e eee en 
«2 'Brrrisn Anzxrcan IA 
ſs in the Weſt Indies, are into the dry and wet an 
air. of this iſland is, in 'moſt-places, 'exceſſive det and waters 
able to European conftirutions ; but the'cool fea-breezes, which 
min every morning at ten o*clotk, render the hear more tolerabl 
and the air upon the high grounds is temperate, pure, and cool 
It Tightens almoſt every night, but without mach” thunder, whi 
i . When it happens is very terrible, and roars with altonithing lou 
k | nefs, and the H 8 theſe violent ſtorms, frequently does pro 
| damage. In February or March; they expe@ earthquakes, dae 
the months of May and October, the rains are extremely violent, 
continue ſometimes for a. fortnight together, "3.88 
Ziugar is the greateſt and moft valuable production of this iflat 
Cacao was formerly cultivated in it to great extent.” It produces 
fo ginger, and the pitnento, or, as it is called; Jamaica pepper; t 
wild cinnamon tree, whoſe bark is ſo ulefal in medicine; the ms 
chineel, whoſe fruit, though uncommonly. delightful to the e 
contains one of the worſt poiſons in nature ; the mahogany, in f 
uſe with our cabinet- makers, ' and of the molt yaluable quality, | 
this wood begins to wear out, and of late is very dear. The Indi 
| plant was formerly much cultivated; and the cotron-tree is fil 
1 No ſort of European grain grows here; they have only" ware, 
| Indian cbrn, Guinea corn, peas of various kinds,” but none of th 
Teſembling ours, with variety of roots. Fruits grow in great pleat 
eitrons, Seville and China oranges, common and ſweet lemons, ln 
 ſhadocks, pomegranates, mamees, fourſops, papas, "pme-appl 
'cultard-apples,” ſtar- apples, prickly-pears, avocado-pears, wei 
pompions, guavas, and ſeveral. kinds of berries, 'alfo garden lit 
in great plenty and good. The cattie bred on this and are 
few ; their beef is tough and lean ; the mutton and lamb are fd ty 
able; they have great plenty of hogs, and their fleſh is excced 
ſweet and delicate, Their horfes are ſmall, mertleſome and hard 
and when well made generally fell for 30 or $0 J. flerling. © Jamar ; 
likewiſe ſupplies the apothecaty with guiacum, farſaparilla, cer 
caſſia, and tamarinds, Among the animals are the land and 
turtle, and the alligator. Here are all ſorts of fowl, wild and tao þ 
and in particular more parrots than in any of the other ian 
befides parrokets, pelicans, fnipes, teal, Guinea hens, geeke, du 
and turkies ; the humming-bird, and a great variety of others. 1 
rivers and bays abound with fiſh. The mountains breed num ove 2 
adders, and other noxious animals, as the fens and marſhes a 
guana aid gallewaſp : but theſe Faſt are hot Yenomous.” Am 
the inſeQs are the ciror, or chegoe, which eats into the nervos 
-membraneous parts of the fleſh of the negrots, and the white [ed 
are ſometimes plagued with them.” 'Theſe fuſects get inte an! 
of the body, but chiefly the legs and feet, where they breed inf 
numbers, and ſbut themſelves up in a bag. As ſoon as the 
ſeels them, which is not perhaps till a week after they have wk wa 
the body, they pick them out with a needle, or the point of 1c: :; 
knife, taking care to deſtroy the bag entirely. that none of the en 
which are like nits, may be left behind. They ſometimes ges! 
the toes, and eat the fleſh to the bone. . 46 
' Indigo was once very greatly cultivated in Jamaica, a 
riched the ifland to ſo great à degree, that in the pariſh "I 


FO MASS 8 - 7 LE 4 "= — — 1 * pe : 4 p — „ os 
— — — . — . w ¹ud⁊˙²⁊⁊ñ Ä ͤ···ů 
. * F. 
* = 


„ EIT OE COON ECT TE NT 


irie Ankaccay Iaranns: 643 


where this drug was chiefly cultivated, they are ſaid to-have had no 
b than 300 gentlemen's coaches ; and there is great reaſon to be- 
ere, that there were many more perſons of property in Jamaica 
trmerly than are now, though perhaps they had not theſe vaſt for · 
mes, which dazzle us in ſuch a manner at preſent. However, the 
þnaicans were undoubtedly very numerous, until reduced by earth- 
wakes, and by terrible epidemical diſeaſes, which, treading on the 
del of the former calamities, ſwept away vaſt multitudes. 3” 
Port- Royal was formerly the capital of Jamaica. It ſtood upon 
the point of a narro neck of land, which, towards the ſea, for- 
ped part of the border of a very fine harbour of its.own name. 
The conveniency of this harbour, which was capable to contain 
000 fail 'of large ſhips, and of ſuch depth as to allow them to load 
ud unload at the greatelt eaſe, weighed To much with the inhabi- 
ants, that they choſe te build their capital on this ſpot, though the 
place was a hot dry ſand, and produced none of the neceſſaries of 
le, nor even freſh water. But the advantage of its harbour, and 
tte reſort of pirates, made it 2a place of great conſideration. Theſe 
rates were called Buccaueers, they fought with an inconſiderate 
very, and then ſpent their fortune in chis capital with as incon- 
erate diſſipation. About the beginning of the year 1692, no 
place, for its ſize, could be compared · to this town for trade, wealth, 
md an entire corruption of manners. In-the month of June, in 
u year,, an earthquake, which ſhook the whole iſland to the foun 
tions, totally overwhelmed this city, as to leave, in one quarter, 
it even the ſmalleſt veſtige remaining. Ja two minutes, the earth 
pened and ſwallowed up nine · tenths of the houſes, and two thou- 
Ind people. The water guſhed out from the openings of the earth, 
d tumbled the people on heaps 3 but ſome of them had-the good 
tune to catch hold of beams and rafters of houſes, and were at- 
ewards ſaved by boats. Several ſhips were caſt away in the har- 
ur; and the Swan frigate, which lay in the dock to careen, was 
wried over] the tops of ſinking . houſes, and did not overſet, but 
orded a retreat to ſome hundreds of people, who ſaved their lives 
pon her. An officer, who was in the town at this time, ſays, the 
th opened and ſhut very quick in ſome places, and he ſaw ſeveral 
ole fink down to the middle, and others appeared with their 
d juſt above ground, and were ſqueezed to death. At Savannah, 
ve 4 thouſand acres were ſunk, with the houſes and people in 
n; the place appearing for ſome time like a lake, was afterwards 
ed up, but no houſes were ſeen. In ſame parts, mountains were 
t; and at one place a plantation was removed to-the diſtance of a 
e. They again rebuilt the city, but it was a ſecond time, ten 
$ alter, deſtroyed by a great fire, The extraordinary conveni- 
ce of the harbour, tempted them to build it once more; and once 
We, in 1722, was it laid in rubbiſh by a hurricane, the moſt ter- 
e on record. Such repeated calamities ſeemed to mark out this 
cer as a devoted ſpot; the inhabitants therefore reſolved to forſake 
br ever, and to refide at the oppoſite bay, where they built King - 
„ Which is lately become the capital of the iſland. Ir conſiſts of 
ds of 1000 houſes, many of them handſomely built, and in 
tale of theſe iſlands, as welt as the neighbouring coatinent, one 
4 M 2 | ſtory 


— 


S Buarviss AA Hei enn 
ory high, with porticos, and every conyeniency for à conf; 
port ue that climate. Not far from — lands & 1 
de la Vega, 2 Spaniſh town, which, though at prefect inferior? 
Kingſton, was once the capital of Jamaica, and is ſtill the fear 
government, and the place where the courts of are held. 
On Sundays, or court-time, 8 wear wigs, and appe 
very gay in coats of filk, and veſts "trimmed with filver;- Ar oth 
times they generally wear only thread flockings;- linen” drawers; 
veſt; a Holland eap, and a hat upon it. Men-fervants wear a coat 
linen frock, with buttons at the neck and Hands, long 'trowſers 
the ſame, and a check ſhirt. © The * 5 thoſe who ate 
ntlemen, who have them dreſſed in their o livery; have once 
year Oſhaburghs, and a blanket for cloathing, wich à cap ur hat 
kerchief for head: The morning habit of the ladies is a Jo 
night-gown careleſily wrapped about theth 3" before dinger they 
off their diſhabille, and appear with a goed grate in all the ady 
bugs of a rich and becoming dreſ. 
The common, drink of perſans in affluent ejfenrnſtances is Mad 
wine mixed with water. Ale and claret are extravagantly dear; 


Tr. dM. 


* 
5 


3 


RF 


London porter ſells for a ſhilling per bottle. But the general d 
eſpecially among thoſe of inferior rank, is rum punch, which i ylc 
call Kill-Devil, becauſe; being frequenitly drank to exceſs, it! ner 
the blood, brings on fevers, Which in 4 ſew ours ſend chem to ny es 
grave, eſpecially thoſe who ate jult come to the Hand; which is t 
reaſon that ſo many die here upon their rſt arrival, 1 | 
_ Engliſh money is ſeldom ſeen here, the current coin being entingny it! 
Spaniſh. There is no place where flyer is fo plentiful; or ha ad 
quicker circulation. You cannot dine for lefy chan a piece of el 
and the common rate of boarding is three pounds per weeks oy tic 
in the markets beef, pork, fowl, And fiſtt, may be bought as ch ſis 
as in London; but mutton ſells at nine: penęe per pound. fixo 
Learning is here at a very low ebb : there ure indeed ſome gens wn; 
men well verſed in literature, and who ſend their children to rolf 
Britain, where they have the advantage of à polite and liberal Fic 
cation; but the bulk of the people take little cafe to improve tg iv: 
minds, being generally engaged in trade br Yiotbus difipation.; tre 
The miſery and hardſhips of the negrots- is truly od does, 
though great care is taken to make them propagate, the in g wre 
ment they receive ſo ſhortens their lives, thit-initead of ere vd! 
by the courſe of nature, many thouſands "te"atifivially importe ler 
the Weſt-Indies, to ſupply the place of thoſe who pine and dg uu ; 
the hardſhips they receive. They are indeed Rubborn and ung v. 
table for the moſt part, and they muſt be ruled with à rod of tied 
but they ought not to be cruſhed with it, or to be thought a fc e 
beaſts, without ſouls, as ſome of their overſeers do at preſent, Þ terof 
ſome of theſe tyrants are themſelves the dregs of this nation, Wit: 
the refuſe of the Jails of Europe Many of 'the negroes, bewahre 
who fall into the hands of gentlemen of humänity, find their A L 
tions eaſy and comfortable; and it has been obſerved, that in ae 
America, where in general theſe poor wretelles are better gen 
there is a leſs waſte ee they live longer. arid propagate , lu, 


ter. The flaves, on the firſt arrival ſrom the coaſt of Gun 


of, * 


Barron. Antetcay IsLanyds Gig 


wed naked to fale ; they are then generally very ſimple and inno- 
WT: creatures; but they foon become _— enough; and when they 
ane fo be whippeds excuſe their faults by the example of the whites. 
ſhey bene ve every negeoe returns to his native country aſter death, 
This thought is ſo 4 ceable, that ir chears the poor creatures, and 
ders the burden of life eaſy, which would otherwiſe to many of 
dem be quite intolerable. They look on death as a blefling, and it 
| ſurpriſing to fee with what courage and intrepidity ſome of them 
wet it ; they are quite tranſported to think their flavery is near at 
end; that they ſhall reviſit their native ſhores, and ſee their old 
tiends and acquaintance. When à negro is about to expire; his 
Mow-ſlaves kits him, and wiſh him a good journey, and fend their 
arty good wiſhes to their relations in Guinea. They make no la- 
nations; but with a grear deal of joy inter his body, believing - 
uh gone home and happy. 520 | 


BARBADOES, the moſt Eafterly of all the Caribbees, is fitua- 
ed in 59 deg. W. lon. and 15 oor: N. lat. It is 21 miles in length, 
ind in breadth 14. When the Engliſh, forne time after the year 
i625, firſt landed here, they found it the moſt ſavage and deſtitute 
ce they had hitherto viſited. It had not the leaſt appearance of 
mr having been peopled even by ſavages. There was no kind of 
beaſts of paſture or of prey, no fruit, no herb, nor root fit — 
ting the life of man. Yet as the climate was ſo good, and the 
1 fertile, ſome gentlemen of ſmall fortune in Englaud, 
Kfolved to become adventurers thither. The trees were ſo large, 
iid of a wood ſo hard and ſtubborn, that it was with great diflicul- 
q they could clear as much ground as was neceffary for their ſubſii- 
tice, By unremitting ese, however, they brought it to 
feld them a tolerable ſupport; and they found that cotton and In- 
Igo agreed well with the ſoil, and that tobacco, which was begin- 
ag to come into repute in England, anſwered tolerably. Theſe 
poipefts, together with the ſtorm between the king and parliament 
wich was beginning to break out in England, induced many new 
Wrentures to tranſport themſelves into this iſland. And what is 
itremely remarkable, ſo great was the increaſe of people in Barba» 
bes, 25 years after its ſt ſettlement, that in 1650, it contained 
hore than 50,000 whites, and a much greater number of negro 
ad Indian ſlaves ; the latter they acquired by means not at all to 
lei hononr ; for they ſeized upon all thoſe uubappy men, without 
y pretente, in the neighbouring iſlands, and carried them into fla» 
Ry. A practice, Which has rendered the Caribbee Indians irrecon- 
le to us ever ſince; They had begun a little before this, to cultĩ · 
Nate gar, which ſbon rendered them extremely wealthy. The num- 
hof ſſaves therefore was Rill augmented: and in 1676, it is ſuppoſed 
Wat their number amdunted to 106,000, which, together with 50,000 
late 15,000 on this ſmall ſpot ; a degeee of population unknown in 
land, in China, or any other part of the world moſt renowned 
numbers. At this time Barbadoes employed 400 fail of ſhips, 
me with another of 150 tons, in their trade. Their annual exports 
n ſugar, indigo, ginger, cotton, and citron- water, was above 
95201, and their circulating caſh at home was 200,000 1, Such 
was 


— 


- 


36, ooo negroes.. | | 


The inhabitants are chiefly employed in huſbandry, and railing ire 


666 Baris Anznican ene 


well endowed by colonel Codrington, who was a native of this iſlan 


its name from the famous Chriſtopher Columbus, who diſcovered 
for the Spaniards, - This nation, however, abandoned it as unwo 


is ſuppoſed to contain about 7000 whites, and 30,000 flaves. 


© BARBUDA.] Situated in 18 deg. N. lat, a5 wie, North! 


Q 2 
= = * 
\ 
1 


was the increaſe of population, trade, and wealth, in che cou, i 
go years. But ſince that time, this iſland has been much on the 
cline, which is to be attributed partly to the growth of the Feen 
Sugar colonies, and partly to our on eſtabliſhments in the ne; 
bouring iſles. Their numbers at preſent are ſaid to be 20,000 whit 
and 100,000 ſlaves. Their commerce confiſts in the fame articles 
formerly, though they deal in them to leſs extent. Their capital 
Bridgetown, where the governor refidey, whoſe» employment is 
to be worth 50001. per annum. They have à college founded at 


Barbadoes, as well as Jamaica, has ſuffered much by hurrican 
fires, and the plague. e REES 


sr CHRISTOPHER's, commonly called by the failors, 
Kit's, is ſituated in 62 deg. W. lon. and / deg. N. lat. about 
Jeagues from Antigua, and is 20+ miles long, and'7 broad. It! 


thy of their attention; and in 1626, it was ſettled by the Frend 
and Engliſh conjun&ly ; but entirely ceded to us by the peace 
Utrecht, Beſides cotton, ginger, and the tropical fruite, it gen 
rally produces near as much ſugar as Barbados, and ſometimes qui 
as much, It is computed that this iſland contains 6000 whites a 
ANTIGUA. ] Situated in 61 deg. W. lon. and 19 dep. 
fat. is of a circular form, near 20 miles over every way. Ti 
iſland, which was formerly thought uſeleſs, has now got the ar 
the reſt. It has one of the beſt harbours in the Welt-Indies, at 


NEVIS anv MONTSERRAT.] Two ſmall iſlands, lying! 
tween. St Chriſtopher's and Antigua neither of them exceeding | 
miles in circumference, and are ſaid each to contain 5000 Whites af 
10,000 ſlaves. The ſoil in theſe four iſlands is pretty muck alk 
light, and ſandy, but notwithſtanding fertile in an high degree; u 
their principal exports are derived from the ſugar cane. 


Antigua, is 20 miles in length, and 12 in breadth. I is ſertil 
and has a good road for ſhipping, but no dire& trade with England 


proviſions for the uſe of the neighbouring iſles, It belongs to Ul 
Codrington family, and the inhabitants amount to about 1500. 


ANGUILLA.] Situated in 19 deg. N. lat. 60 miles North-Ve 
of St Chriſtopher's, is about 3o miles long and 10 broad. Th 
iſland is perfectly level, and the climate nearly the ſame with that 
Jamaica. The inhabitants, who are not numerous, apply tbemieln 
to huſbandry, and feeding of cattle. ö 2 


DOMINICA ] Situated in 16 deg. N. lat. 25g fg . 


Biitrsn Ananicain Teuangs. 647 
. about half way between Guadalupe and Martinico. It is near 

i miles in len th, and 13 in breadth, it got its name from being 
*-orered by Columbus on à Sunday. The foil ef this iſland is 
kin, and better adapted to the rearing of coffee than ſugar, but 

r fdes of the hills bear the fineſt trees in the Weſt- Indies, and 
& iſland is well ſupplied with rivulecs of fine water. | 1 


& VINCENT.] Situated in 13 deg . N lat. and in 61 deg: W. 
u 50 miles North-Weſt of Barbadoes, 30 mites South of St Lucia, 
+ about 24 miles in length, and 18 in breadth, It is extremely 
Mitful, being a black mould upon à Rreng loam, the moſt proper 
kr the raiſing of ſugar. Indigo thrives here remarkably well, but 
ts article is leſs cultivated than formerly throughout: the Wekt- 
Ladies, It is at preſent chiefly” inhabited by the Caribbeans, and 
many fugitives from Barbadoes and the other iſlands, who are now 
wnerous, and have many villages, where they are ſaid to live well. 


0 GRANADA any T#s GRANADINES.] Granada is fituated 
k 12 deg. North lat. and in 62 deg, Weſt lon. about 30 lea 
Sath-Weſt of Barbadoes, and - almoſt the fame diſtance North of | 
w-Andaluſia, or the Spaniſh Main, This iſland is ſaid to be 30 
wiles in length, and 15 in breadth. Experience has proved, that 
s foil of this iſland is extremely proper for producing ſugar, coffee, 
wbacco, and indigo; and upon the whole it carries with it all the 
gpearance of becoming as flouriſhing a colony as any of the Welt- 
ladies, of its dimenſie A lake on the top of a hill in the mid- 
le of the iſland ſupplies it plentifully with fine rivers, which adorn 
ul fertilize it. Several bays and harbours lye round the illand, 
ome of which may be fortified with great advantage, which ven- 
lets it very convenient for ſhipping; and it has the happineſs: of 
(ct being ſubje& to hurricanes. Its chief port, called St George's, 
ts a ſandy bottom, and is fo capacious and ſafe, that 1000 veſſels 
hom 3 to 400 ton may ride ſecure from ſtorms z' and 100 ſhips of 

5 the oreateſt burden may be moored in its harbour. a 


TOBAGO.] The moſt ſoutherly of all the ' Britiſh iſlands or 
kitlements in America (except Falkland Iflands in the South-8eas) 
$ lituated in 11 deg. North lat. 120 miles South of Barbadoes, and 
Wnt the ſame diſtance from the Spaniſh Main. This ifland is about 
miles in length, and nine in breadth. The climate is not fo hot 
might be expected ſo near the equator ; and it is ſaid, that it lyes 
Mt of the courſe of thoſe hurricanes that have ſometimes proved ſa 
pal to the other Weſt- India iſlands. Tt has a fruitful ſoil, capable 
i producing ſugar, and indeed every thing elſe that is raiſed in the 

elt. Indies, with the addition (if we may believe the Dutch) of 


Me le cinnamon, nutmeg, and gum copal. It is well watered with 
TWP nerous ſprings ; and its bays and creeks are fo diſpoſed as to be 
151 "7 commadious for all kind of ſhipping. 


NEWFOUNDLAND.} It is fituated to the Eaſt of the gulph 
& Lawrence, between 46 and 52 deg. North Jat. and between 
and 59 deg. Welt lon. ſeparated from Labrador or New-Britain 


de iraits of Belleiſle, and from Canada by the bay of St Law- 
reuce. 


* 


„ Acad ꝛñ2— —EWᷣ oe. —_ yy I 
- 
* — 
* 
: 


— 
1 

** 
x by 


* 
SKA 
n -* 
. 
* 


| rence, being g50 miles long and 400 broade Thecealitareenre 
ly ſabje& to ſogs, attended with almel contend Rorms of fl 
and fleet, the (ky being uſually ot. The cold Tong cont 


6 it. A. i. — 
_— - - 
9 
7 . 
. 


the leſſer ones, which ly on the Raſt and Sonth- Rat of his ay 


| carried on upon all their cogſts. 471-80 


ven fathoms water. 


8 
* 
1 


advantage of both in pleaſantneſs and fertility of ſoil, "Upon the 


80 * * 1. * 
* 0 « * by Lev — 4 
, 
"2. 6d 4 


** 95 20 
n 


ed and ſevere; and the ſummer beats though vialest, warms it 
enough to. produce apy thing valuable 3 fer che ſol, at deaſt in tt 
2 of the iſland wich which we ane acquainted, is r and by r 
owever, it is watered by ſeveral good rivers, and hath many | > 
and good harbours. What as pr igt ih cis obiefly valuable for. 
e great filkery of cod, carried an,mpopthole thoals/which are g 
\ Banks of Newfoundland. Great - Britain and North Ag "4 
rica, at the loweſt computation, anppallyemployi3000-fail of coll | 
craft in this fiſhery a on board of hi4, and an thore to cure « 
pack. the filh, are upwards of 3 a,000 hands f ſo Ahat this fiſher 
not only a very valuable branch of stunde to the merchant, but 
ſource of livelihood'to ſo many thoplaiids.ot poor people, and 2 n 
excellent nurſery to the royal nav. This fe as computed to 
creaſe the national Rock 300, 000 I. a year in gold and filver, rem 
ted to us for the cod we fell in the North, in Spain Portugal, 
and the Levant. The plenty of cod both un che great bank, 2 


is inconceivable ; and not only co., hut leveral other ſpecies cf 
are caught there in abundance; all of which ate neariy ad an eg 


plenty along the ſhores. of Newſoundand, NewesScorland, 'New-E 
gland, and the iſſe of Cape Breton ;- and very profitable-hlkeries 


CAPE BRETON.] This tand, ſeated-between Men fend 
and Nova Scotia, is in length about 1 miles. The felt is yarn . 
but it has good harbours, particularly that of Louiſburgh, whicl "nn 
near four leagues in circumference, and has every where fix or 


% , 1. FL "* ; * 
SR. dich 


Sr JOHN's,] Situated in.the gulph af Be Lamwence,jis about 
miles in length, and 30 or 40 broad, has many fue rien, Roe 
though lying near Cape Breton and New Scotland, has greatly ual 


duction of Cape Breton, the inhabitants of this iſland, amounting 
4000, ſabmitted quietly to the Britiſh arms and to the dilgrac 
the French governor, there, were found. in his houſe fever Engl 
ſcalps, which were brought there to market by the ſavages of * 
Scotland; this being the place where they wereencouraged to d 
on that barbarous and inhuman trade. This iſland was fe well | 
proved by the French, that it was Riled the granary of Cana 
which it furniſhed with great plenty of corn, as. well as beef 


Path os ; | Dani; 


 BERMUDAS os SUMMER ISLANDS J Theſe received” : 
firſt name from their beivg diſcovered by John Bermuda, 2 - 
niard, and were called the Summer Iſlands, from Sir Gerz g. 
mers, who was ſhip-wrecked on their rocks in 1609, bis 1 
to Virginia. They are ſituated at a vaſt diſtance from 75 - * 
nent, in 32 degrees North latitude, and in 65 degrees Wes 


— i » ͤ̃(' : 
2 ** 

BAITS AMA IA S4 649 
Me, Their diſtance from the Land's end is computed near 1500 
Neues, from the Madeiras about 1200, and from Carolina 300, 
de Bermudas are but ſmall, not containing in all above 20, ooo acres z 
ad are very difficult of acceſs, being as Waller the poet, who re- 
Kd ſome time there, expreſſes it, walled in with rocks. The air 
«theſe iſlands, which Waller celebrates in one of his poems, has 
ben always eſtee med extremely healthful ; and the beauty and rich» 
1b of the vegetable productions is perfectly delightful. Though 
te ſoil of theſe iſlands is admirably adapted to the cultivation of the 
pes, the chief and only buſineſs of the inhabitants, who conſiſt of 
ut 12,000, is the W and navigating of light floops and 
kigantines, which they employ chiefly in the trade between North 
America and the Weſt Indies. Theſe veſſels are as remarkable for 
teir ſwiſtneſs, as the cedar for which they are built is for its hard 
ud durable quality. | ' 

The town of St Georg which is the capital, is ſeated at the bot- - 
vm of a haven in the iſland of the ſame name, and is defended by 
hen or eight forts, and 70 pieces of cannon, It contains above 
boo houtes, a handſome church, and other elegant public build- 


1 N 7 


LUCAY's, ox BAHAMA ISLANDS. ] The Bahamas are ſitu- 
xted to the South of Carolina, between 22 and 27 degrees North la- 
ltude, and 73 and 81 degrees Welt Dee They extend along 
the coaſt of Florida quite down to the iſle of Cuba; and are ſaid to 


k 500 in number, ſome of them only mere rocks; but twelve of 


them are large, fertile, and in nothing different from the ſoil of Ca- 
mina: all are, however, abſolutely uninhabited, except Providence, 
wich is 200 miles Eaſt of the Floridas. Between them and the 
wntinent of Florida is the gulph of Bahama, or Florida, through 
wick the Spaniſh galeons-fail in their paſſage to Europe. 


FALKLAND ISLANDS.} Are ſituated near the Streights of 
Iazellan, at the utmoſt extremity. of South America. It has been 
acrally believed, that the richeſt gold mines in Chili are carefully 
Pncealed by the Indians, as well knowing that the diſcovery of 
em would only excite in the Spaniards a greater thirſt for conqueſt 
ad tyranny, and would render their own independence more preca- 
ws, King Charles II. of England conſidered the diſcovery of 
Ws coaſt of ſuch conſequence, that Sir John Narborough was pur- 
rely fitted out to ſurvey the Streights of Magellan, the neighbour- 
jg coalt of Patagonia, and the Spaniſh ports in that frontier ; with + 
rections, if poſſible, to procure ſome intercourſe with the Chilian 
Gans, who are generally at war, or at leaſt on ill terms with the 
pauards : and to eſtabliſh a commerce and a laſting correſpondence 
them. Though Sir John, through accidental cauſes, failed in 
I apt, which, in appearance, promiſed ſo many advantages 
ls nation, his tranſactions upon that coaſt, beſides the many 
wable improvements he ſurniſhed to geography and navigation, 
* rather an encouragement for further trials of this kind, than 
1 Objection againſt them. It appears by the precautions and fears 

ic Spaniards, that they were fully convinced of the practicabili- 


4 N 7 


* 


* 
3 
U v 


' 650- ; Baris Au zaIc AAN IS 1A 88 


ty of the ſcheme he was ſent to execute, and extremely alarmed u 
the apprehenſion of its conſequences. It is ſaid that his majeſty ki 
&harles was ſo far prepoſſeſſed with the belief of the emolumes 
which might redound to the public from this expedition, and "ey 
eager to be informed of the event of it, that, having intelligence 
Sir John Narborough's pafling the downs, on his return, he had u 
patience to attend his arrival at court, but went himſelf in his bar 
to Graveſend to meet him. | is mY | 
Falkland iflands were firſt diſcovered by Sir Richard Hawkins 
1594, the principal of which he named Hawkins Maidenland 
honour of queen Elizabeth. The preſent Engliſh name Falklani 
was probably given them by captain Strong, in 1689, and beir 
adopted by Halley, it has from that time been received into o 
maps. | | 

In the year 1764, the late Lord Egmont, then firſt lord of th 
admiralty, revived the ſcheme of a ſettlement in the South- 
commodore Byron was ſent to take poſſeſſion of Falkland iſtands i 
the name of his Britannic majeſty, and in his journal repreſents thet 
as a valuable acquiſition. On the other hand, they are repreſents 
by captain M' Bride, who in 1766 fucceeded that gentleman, as th 
outeaſts of nature, We found, ſays he, a maſs of iſlands ar 
broken lands, of which the ſoil was nothing but a bog, with no be 
fer proſpe@ than that of barren mountains, beaten by ſtorms almoi 
perpetual. Yet this is Summer, and if the winds of Winter hol 
their natural proportion, thoſe who lye but two cables length frog 
the ſhore, muſt paſs weeks without having any communication wit 
| it.” The plants and vegetables which were planted by Mr Byron 
4 ' _ people, and the fir-tree, a native of rugged and cold elimates, h:. 
withered away ; but goats, ſheep, and hogs, that were carried th 
ther, were found to thrive and increaſe as in other places. Geeſe 
of a filly taſte, ſnipes, foxes, fea-lions, penguins, plenty of go 
water, and in the Summer months, wild ſallary, and ſorrel, are tl 

natural luxuries of theſe iſlands. 
But though the ſoil be barren, and the ſeas tempeſtuous, we ha 
happily ſucceeded in the grand object of a ſettlement here, by t 
diſcovery of a noble harbour, ſecurgd from the fury of the winds b 
ſurrounding mountains, and which in time of war will make usm 
ſters of thoſe ſeas. | FEY 


PANISH DOMINIONS xx NORTH AMERICA. 


NEW MEXICO, ixcLuvixs CALIFORNIA. 


S1TUATION AD EXTENT. 


Miles. Degrees. 


Length 2000 94 and 126 Weſt longitude. 
Breadth 2555 deen + 3 and 43 North latitude, 


Boundaries.) B OUNDED by unknown lands on the North; 

by Louiſiana, on the Eaſt 3 by old Mexico, and 

the Pacific ocean, on the South; and by the ſame ocean, on the 
Welt, | 


Diviſions, Subdiviſions, Chief towns. 


: 3 New Mexico Santa Fe, Weſt lon. 104. 
North-Eaſt diviſion C Proper : Wai a6. | 
South-Eaſt diviſion Apacheira —— St Antonio | 
South divikon Sonora — Tuape 


WW California, a 
Weſt diviſion 3 : } 8: Juan. 


Seil and Climate.) Theſe cquntries lying for the meſt part within 
the temperate zone, have a cIttnate in many places extremely agree - 
able, and a ſoil productive of every thing, either for profit or delight. 
In California, however, they experience great heats in the Snm- 
mer, particularly towards the ſea-coaſt ; but in the inland country, 
tte climate is more temperate, and in Winter even cold. 


Face and Produce of the Country.) The natural hiſtory of theſe 
countries is as yet in its infancy. The Spaniards themſelves know 
ittle of the matter, and the little they know, they are unwilling to 
communicate, Their authority being on a precarious footing with 
tie Indians, who here at leaſt ſtill preſerve their independence; they 
ve jealous of diſcovering the natural advantages of theſe countries, 
Vhich might be an inducement to the other nations of Europe, to 
form ſettlements there. It is certain, however, that in general the 
provinces of New Mexico and California, are extremely beautiful 
ad pleaſant ; the ſace of the country is agreeably varied with plains, 
nterſefted by rivers, and adorned with gentle eminences covered 
Wh various kinds of trees, ſome producing excellent fruit. With 
relpet to the value of the gold mines in thoſe countries, — 
Polittve can be aſſerted. They have undoubtedly enough of natura 
09uRions, to render them advantageous colonies to any but the 

4 N 2 Spaniards, 


7 mn! . 
* My i” td 4 
* \ bd 5 * 


6&2: SPANISH AMERICA 


** 


0. Mexie , 


hard like manna, 2 all the ſweetneſs of reſined ſu 

its whiteneſs. There is alſo another very ſingular natu produdtio 
In the heart of the country there are plains of ſalt, quite firm an 
clear as chryſtal, which, conſidering the vaſt quantities of fil foun 


pus nation. | 
Inhabitants, Hiſtory, Government, Religion and C, ommerce.) Th 


increaſiig every day in proportion as new mines are diſcovered. Th 
inhabitants are chiefly Indians, whom the Spaniſh miſſionaries hay 
in many places brought over to Chriſtianity, to a civilized life, t 
raiſe corn and wine, which they now export pretty largely to Ol 
Mexico. California was diſcovered by Cortez, the great conquero 


of it in 1578, and his right was confirmed by the principal how, « 
chief in the whole country. os tos. 


* 


OLD MEXICO, ox NEW SPAIN, 


SITUATION AND EXTENT, 


Miles. Degrees. 
a Length 2000 83 and 110 Weſt longitude, 
| Breadth mo between, 8 and 30 North latitude, 


Boundaries. B O UND E D by New Mexico, or Granada, or 
a the North; by the gulph of Mexico, on thi 
North-Eaſt, by Terra Firma, on the South-Eaſt, aud by the Pa 
cific ocean, on the South-Weſt, containing three audiences, vis. 


* 


Audiencies. Chief towns. 
1. Galicia or Guadalajarra Guadalajarra 
W. lon, 102-33. 
Mexico 9 N. lat. 20 
5 2. Mexico Proper k- Acapulco 
| Vera Cruz 
g 3. Guatimala Guatimala. 


Bays.] On the North- ſea are the gulphs or bays of Mexico, Cant 
peachy, Vera Cruz, and Honduras; in the Pacific ocean, ot SOUL 


ſea are the bays Micoya and Amapalla, Acapulco, and Salinas 
(aten 


Spaniards. In California there falls in the mornin e 
ty of dew, which, ſettling on the roſe- leaves, — * ON — 5 


on its coaſts, might render it an invaluable acquiſition to any indultr 
Spaniſh ſettlements here are comparatively weak ; though tney ar 
of Mexico; our famous navigator Sir Francis Drake took poſſeſſion 


5 * 
—.—. —ßU˙— .. —— T r — 


r * 9 


TT 44 4 4 
a : * * 
s * * 


9 Mexico. SPANISH AMERICA! Gf. 


100 
aut Caber.] Theſe are cape Sardo, cape St Martin, cape Cornduce- 
wind 10 cape Catoche, cape Honduras, cape Cameron, and cape Gra- 


Dios, in the North-ſea. 


— ee Marques, cape Spirito Sancto, cape Corientes, cape Gal - 

an kro, cape Blanco, cape Burica, cape Prucreos, and cape Mala, in 

Dun the South-ſea. | | 

r 
a Vindi.] In the Gulph of Mexico, and the adjacent ſeas, there 
ire ltrong North winds from October to March, about the full and 

Th change of the moon. Trade winds prevail everywhere at a diſtance 

ar om land within the tropics. Near the coaſt in the South-ſea, they 

Th have their periodical winds, viz. Monſoous, and fea and land breezes, 


% in Aſia. ; 


Sil and Climate. ] Mexico lying for the moſt part within the tor- 
erg rid zone, is exceſſively hot, and on the Eaſteru coalt, where the 
und is low, marſhy, and conſtantly flooded in the rainy ſeaſons, it 
b likewiſe extremely unwholſome. The inland country, however, 
Aſumes a becter aſpect, and the air is of a milder temperament ; on 
the Weſtern fide the land is not ſo low, as on the Ealtern, much 
better in quality, and full of plantations. The ſoil of Mexico in ge- 
——HMT tcral is of a good variety, and would not refuſe any ſort of grain 
were the induſtry of the inhabitants to correſpond with their natural 


advantages. 


Produce ] Mexico, like all the tropical countries, is rather more 
abundant in fruits than in grain. Pine apples, pomegranates, oran- 
ges, lemons, citrons, figs, and cocoa nuts, are here in the greatelt pleu- 
ty and perfection. A prodigious quantity of ſugar is alſo produced, 
epecially towards the gulph of Mexico, and the province of Guaxa- 
a and Guatimala, ſo that here are more ſugar mills than in any o- 
ther part of Spaniſh America. But what is conſidered as the chief 
glory of this country, and what firſt induced the Spaniards to form 
kitlements upon it, are the mines of gold and filver. The chief 
mines of gold are in Veragua and New Granada, confining upon 
Darien and Terra Firma, Thoſe of ſilver, which are much more 
fich, as well as numerous, are found in ſeveral parts, but in none ſo 
much as in the province of Mexico. The mines of both kinds are 
ways found in the molt barren and mountainous part of the coun- 
ry, When the ore is dug out, compounded of ſeveral heterogene- 
bus ſubltances, mixed with the precious metals, it is broke into ſmall 
pieces by a mill, and afterwards waſhed, by which means it is diſ- 
engaged from the earth, and other ſoft bodies which cling to it. 
Then it is mixed with mercury, which, of all ſubſtances, has the 
lrongeſt attraction for gold, and likewiſe a ſtronger attraction for 
liver, than the other ſubſtances which are united with it in the ore. 
by means of the mercury, therefore, the gold and ſilver are brſt ſe⸗ 
prated from the heterogeneous matter, and then by (training and 
eraporation, they are diſunited from the Mercury itſelf. Of the 
gold and fikver, which the mines of Mexico afford, great things have 
been ſaid, Thoſe who have inquired moſt into this ſubject, com- 


pute the reyenues of Mexico at 24 millions of our money; and it 
| is 


Pa 


4 
hens > 
- le > < . * 9 * 
FT 9 T \ 1 9 N * * 
* FED E 
* 
* 


4 
8 


$3 „„ 
„% SPANISH 1 MERICA O. Mexiee 


{ 
is well oven that this, with the other provinces of Späni Am. 
ca, ſupply the whole world with ſilver. The other articles next i 

importance to gold and ſilver, are the cochineal and cocoa, Aﬀe 1 
much diſpute concerning the nature of the former, it ſeems at laf . 
agreed, that it is of the animal kind, and of the ſpecies of the 1 : 
inſects. It adheres to the plant called Opuntia, and ſucks the Juic , 
of the fruit, which is of a crimſon eolour. It is from this juice th, ; 

Rar - nl of 

the cochineal derives its value, which confiſts in dying all forts « 
the fineſt ſcarlet, crimſon, and purple; and it is computed that th 7 
Spaniards annually export no leſs than nine hundred thouſand pound a 
weight of this commodity, to anſwer the purpoſes of dying. Th " 
* cocoa, of which chocolate is made, is the next conſiderable artic! 1 
in the natural hiſtory and commerce of Mexico. It grows on a tre N 
of a meddling ſize, which bears a pod about the ſize and ſhape of f 
cucumber, containing the cocoa. The Spaniſh commerce in thi ns 
article is immenſe; and ſuch is the internal conſumption, as well af 4 
external call for it, that a ſmall garden of cocoas is ſaid to produc ry 

to the owner, 20,000 crowns a-year. At home it makes a princi 
pal part of their diet, and is found wholeſome, nutricious, and ſhit 
able to the climate. This country likewiſe produces ſilk, but not thr 
fuch abundance as to make any remarkable part of their export VP 
Cotton is here in great abundance, and on account of its lightne .., 
is the common wear of the inhabitants. 4 
Population, Inhabitants, Gevernment, and Manners.) The preſen * 
inhabitants may be divided into Whites, Indians, and negroe by 
The Whites are either born in Old Spain, or they are creoles, i. . 
natives of Spaniſh America. The former are chiefly employed i * 
overnment or trade, and have nearly the ſame character with th kip 
| 86, 4 in Europe ; only a ſtill more conſiderable portion of pride 100 
for they conſider themſelves as entitled to every high diſtindtion ® 
natives of Europe, and look upon the other inhabitants as many dey fad 
grees beneath them. The creoles have all the bad qualities of th ne 
Spaniards, from whom they are deſcended, without that courage : .; 
firmneſs, and patience, which makes the praiſe-worthy part of t "4 
Spaniſh character. Naturally weak and effeminate, they dedica' 0... 
the greateſt part of their lives to loitering, and inactive pleaſurei - 
Luxurious without variety or elegance, and expenſive with great... 
parade, and little conveniency, their general character is no mor whic 
than a grave and ſpecious inſignificance. From idlenefs and coni . 
tution their whole buſineſs is amour and intrigue; and their lade peru 
of conſequence are not at all diſtinguiſhed for their chaſtity or do vet 
meſtic virtues. The Indians, who notwithſtanding the devallation Spain 
of the firſt invaders, remain in great numbers, are become by = Ac 
tinual oppreſſion and indignity, à dejected, timorous, and miſerable _ 
race of mortals. The blacks here, like all thoſe in other parts Me r 


the world, are ſtubborn, hardy, and well adapted for the raf ene 
flavery they endure. | r 

Such is the general character of the inhabitants, not only in Men 
co, but the greateſt part of Spaniſh America. The civil govets 
ment is adminiſtered by tribunals, called Andiences, which bear 


reſemblance to the parliaments in France, In theſe courts the . 


4 * * . N a 4 „ . 0 * 
- a * r * p IEC. 
n y \ r | ri. n A 
2 b - * 
_ = w_ =? y \ , - 
$- = . 


0. Mexico. 8 P A N 18H. AMER I C 4. 655 
py of the king of Spain preſides. His employment is the greateſt 
traſt and power, Which his Catholic majeſty has in his liſpolll, and 


b perhaps the richeſt. government entruſted to any ſubject in the 
world, The greatneſs of the viceroy's office is diminithed by the 


laf hortneſs of its duration. For no. officer is allowed to maintain his 
pa power ſor more than three years, which no doubt may have a good 
lic fe& in ſecuring the authority of the crown of Spain, but is attend- 


ad with unhappy conſequences to the miſerable inhabitants, who be- 
come a prey to every new governor. | The clergy are extremely nu- 
merous in Mexico, and it has been computed, that prieſts, monks, 
ind nuns of all orders, make upwards of a fifth of all the white in- 
ubitants, both here and in the other parts of Spaniſh America. It 
b impoſſible indeed to find a richer field, or one more peculiarly 
adapted to eccleſiaſtics in any part of the world. The people are 
ſuperſtitious, ignorant, rich, lazy, and licentious : with ſuch materials 
to work upon, it is not remarkable, that the church ſhould enjoy one 
fourth of the revenues of the whole kingdom. It is more ſurpriſing, 
that it has not a half. | 


Commerce, Cities, and Shihping.] The trade of Mexico conſiſts of 
three great branches, Which extend over the whole known world. 
It carries on a traffic with Europe, by la Vera Cruz, ſituated on the 
meg zapb of Mexico or North - Sea; with the Eaſt - Indies, by Acapulco 
on the South-Sea, and by South America, by the ſame port. Theſe 
two ſea · ports Vera Cruz and Acapulco, are wonderfully well fitu- 
ned for the commercial purpoſes to which they are applied. It is 
by means of the former, that Mexico pours her wealth over all the 
whole world. To this port the fleet from Cadiz, called the Flota, 


d | eooliſting of three men of war, as a convoy, and 14 large merchant 
big es, annually arrive about the beginning of November. Its cargo 
ride N wants of every commodity and manufacture of Europe, and there 
on ae few nations but have more concern in it than the Spaniards,, who 
Lee . out little more than wine and oil. The profit of theſe, with 
i freight and commiſſion to the merchants, and duty to the king, 
> WY © all the advantage which Spain derives from her American com- 
* merce, When all the goods are landed and diſpoſed of at La Vera 
* Cruz, the fleet takes in the plate, precious ſtones, and ather com- 


modities for Europe. Sometimes in May they are ready to depart. 
from La Vera Cruz, they ſail to the Havanna, in the iſle of Cuba, 
me Phich is the randezvous where they meet the galeons, another fleet 


* rich carries on the trade of Terra Firma, by Carthagena, and of 

0 4 ern by Panama and Porto Bello. When all are collected and pro- 

* = with a convoy neceſſary ſor their ſafety, they ſteer for Old 
Pain, i | 

* Acapulco is the ſea port, by which the communication is kept up 

era b between the different parts of the Spaniſh empire in America and 

* tte Eaſt-Indies. About the month of December, the great galeon, 


mended by a large ſhip as a convoy, which make the only commu- 
Mei * between the Philippines, and mexico, annually arrive here. 
be cargoes of theſe ſhips, (for the convoy, though in an under- 

nd manner likewiſe carries goods), conſiſt of all the rich commo- 
es and manuſactures of the Eaſt, At the ſame time the —_ 
gle — e e iD 


1 


3 
3 
1 


Fi 4 
x 
- 


4 


* 8 N 


R 
as. 1 ' 44 2 . js ts - ; > + : 
d Ea niSH AMERICA 


4 
» 
Py 
1 P 
* 


to bring leſs than two millions of pieces of eight in ſilver, pez 


- * F * 8 N 
* « - l — * * - . ＋ „ 


N 
7 * *. d 2 1 
| * = 1 
s . = 5 


a * - 
* 


— 


ſhip froth Lima the capital of Peru comes in, and is nat compi 


quick ſilver and other valuable commodities, to be laid put in 
purchaſe of the galeons cargoes., Several other ſhips from dite 
parts of Chili and Peru, meet upon the ſame gcca fon. A g 
fair, in which the commodities of all parts of the world are bars 
ed for one another, laſts 30 days, Ibe galeon then prepares 
her voyage, loaded with ſilver and ſuch European goods as þ 
been thought neceſſary. Ihe Spaniards, though chis trade be © 
ried on entirely through their hands, and in the very heart of 
dominions, are comparatively but ſmall gainers by it. For as ti 
allow the Dutch, Great Britain, and other commercial ſtates, 
furniſh the greater part of the cargo of the Flota, fo, the Span 
inhabitants of the Philippines, tainted with the ſame indole 
which ruined their European -anceſtors, permit the Chineſe w 
chants to furniſh the greater part of the cargo of the galeon, 


4 
> 


o 


SPANISH DOMINIONS 1x. SOUTH AMERICA 
TERRA FIRMA, or Ciftilla del Oro. 


SITUATION AND EXTENT. 


Miles. | Degrees. 


Length 14007 60 and 82 Welt longitude.” | © 
Breadth 700 between Lie equator and 12 North latitude 


r by the North ſea (part of the All 
| tic ocean) on the North; by the Tame ſeal 


Surinam, on the Eaſt; by the country of the Amazons aud 
on the South; and the Pacific ocean and New Spain, on tg W 


Diviſion. Subdiviſions. "Chief tons, 


[ 1. Terra - firma Proper, {Porto Bella 
or Darien Panama, W. Ion. 90/5 
| * N. lat. 8-50. 


Carthagena 


The North di- | 2. Carthagena 
viſion contains j 3. St Martha St Martha 
the provinces f 4. Rio de la Hacha -- | Rio de la Hacha 


of 5. Venezuela q Venezuela ; 
6. Comana Comana 1 | 
7. New Andaluſia, or St Thomas 
| Paria 10 / 


—— —— — 


= 
9 


* 


= i - - P - „ 


— 


mY 


” — 


Andes Pet mem 1/10 


Lunge 


* # * 4 , * \ 
14 = * of - - ** * , - „ 
4” 1 W Y 4, og —- of 
*, - * * *. 1 . 7 24 * 
* « # ' * * 4 4 A * 
- + » 4 4 's. 4 — 9 
N * 


* — = 2 = 
' " "TP — 
1 þ * . G 


40. 


- 


; 


* . ; * - 2 * __ 
I = ax. 
a | 
. ce > * * «> q 1 


. : : J 
” ww 51 * 4 10 = 6» * _ 0 4 


* 


* | | hs 

A X * % x 
* *4 

7 ” oe ? 
- 3 7 
5 2 
l L * p 
4 # * L * 
- Cy 
. . 2 : / 
r A 


4 


AMERICA” 


% = 
* 


ours Mai, am bande ; I. f 


2 


”7 - - 
4 
| vw 
Ane 7 ou 
* 
FP = 
% 
8 8 
- 
. 7 * 4 
% * 1 
: 2 - 
= » 4 
"a — . 
4 is 
— = 
T's : * 
* | -C 3 " 
- 
3 =. 
. 54 4 = l 
\ a+ AT „ 
„ . 
av * 8 5 
. ® = 
P 
- we * A 
. % > * 
a 4 
3 ? 4 
' 0 8 „ 4% 
. . 
— 1 1 9 
b 1 
3 
* 1 3 
* ; l F - \ ; 2 * 
ks * oo 
, * 
* * q 
VN 
2 1 by = 
> mw, ? = 
8 
* 1 
. 
4 
- 4 - 
* -d 
To \ 
* 
22 * 
* - = 
3 ö 
, O N 


* 

* 
- 

KW vo 
: 
- 
* 
. 
- 


8 —_ — 
— a R ˙¹ü 
* 
- 
# 
* - 
- * 


nee 


— 
" 


Diziſ 25 f * 8 . os $45: 6. 
Me South di- LETT ar ny 
n con. J. New Granada —( YSanta Fe de Bagota 
ox wh 2. Popayan J Popayan. 


cCaer, Kc. ] The Iſthmus of Darien, or Terra- firma pro · 
bins North and South America, A line drawn from Porto 
R in the North, to Panama in the South - Sea, or rather a little 
Not theſe two towns, is the proper limit between North and South 
Werica, and here the Iſthmus or Neck of land is only 60 miles 


Mer. #1, 4 | 5 
e principal bays: in Terra - firma are, the bay of Panama, 
Wd the bay of St Michael's in the South Sea; the bay of Porto 
e the gulph of Darien, Sino bay, Carthagena bay and harbour, 
pulph of Venezuela, the bay of Maracaibo, the gulph of Trie- 
we bay of Guaira, the bay of Curiaco, and the gulptr of Paria 

Andaluſia, in the North Sea. 3 | 

The chief capes are, Samblas point, Point Canoa, Cape del Agua, 
art point, Cape de Vela, Caps Conquibacoa, Cape Cabelo, Cape 
co, Cape Galera, Cape Three Points; and Cape Naſſau : all 
Wthe North ſhore of Terra · firma. | 


FCimate,] The climate here, particularly in the Northern diviſions, 
extremely hot; and it was found by Ulloa, that the heat of the 
rae day in Paris is continual at Carthagena; the exceſſive heats 
the vapour of the ſea, which is precipitated in ſuch rains as 
u to threaten a general deluge. - Great part of the country there- 
is almoſt continually flooded ; and this, together with the exceſ- 
e heat, ſo impregnates the air with vapours, that in many provin- 
n about Popayan and Porto Bello, it is extremely un- 
ome. | 


Soil and Produce.) The ſoil of this country, like that of the great · 
part of South America, is wonderfully rich and fruitful. It is 
mpoſhble to view, without admiration, the perpetual verdure of the 
Wods, the luxurianey of the plains, and the towering height of the 
Wuntains, This however only applies to the inland country, for 
We coaſts are generally barren ſand, and uncapable of bearing any 
Fecies of grain. The trezs, molt remarkable for their dimenſions, 
we the caobo, the cedar, the maria, and balſam tree. The manza- 
Wo tree is particularly remarkable. It bears « fruit reſembling an 

e but which, under this ſpecious appearanee, contains the moſt 
ſtile poiſon, againſt which common oil is found to be the beſt an- 
Note. The malignity of this tree is ſuch, that if a perſon only 
n under it, be finds his body all ſwelled, and racked with the ſe- 
elt tortures. The beaſts ſrom inſlinct always avoid it. The Ha- 
bella de Carthagena is the fruit of a ſpecies of willow, and contains 
L kernel reſembling an almond, but leſs white, and extremely bitter. 
$ kernel is found to be an excellent and never failing remedy for 


bite of the moſt venomous vipers and ſerpents, which are very 
: : ſrcquent 


* 
7 


frequent all over this country. There were formerly rich mines 
old in this country, which are now in a great meaſure exhanſied 

Fre ſilver, iron, and copper mines, have been ſince opened, and thi 

inhabitants find emeralds, ſapphires, and other-precious ſtones, 


Animals.) Among thoſe peculiar to this country, the moſt 
markable is the Sloth, or as it is called by way of deriſion, the Swit 
Peter. It bears a reſemblance to an ordinary monkey in fhape an 
| fize, but is of a moſt wretched appearance, with its bare hams an 
feet, and its ſkin all over corrugated. - He ſtands in no need of e. 
ther chain or hutch, never ſtirring unleſs compelled by hunger; an 
he is ſaid to be ſeveral minutes in moving one of his legs, nor wi 
blows make him mend his pace. When he moves, every effort f 
attended with ſuch a plaintive, and at the fame time fo diſagreeab] 
a cry, as at once produces pity and diſguſt. In this cry conſiſts th 
whole defence of this wretched animal. For on the firſt hoſtile ar 
proach it is natural for him to be in motion, which is always accon 
panied with diſguſtful howlings, ſo that his purſuer flies much mo 
ſpeedily in his turn, to be beyond the reach of this horrid noiſe 
When this animal finds no wild fruit on the ground, he looks e 
with a great deal of pains for a tree well loaded, which he aſcend 
with a world of uneaſineſs, moving, and crying, and: topping b 
turns. At length having mounted, he plucks off all the fruit, an 
throws it on the ground, to ſave himſelf ſuch another troubleſom 
journey; and rather than be fatigued with coming down the tree 
he gathers himſelf in a bunch, and with a ſhriek drops to the ground 

The monkeys in theſe countries are very numerous; they keep to 
gether 20 or 30 in a company, rambling over the woods, leapin 

from tree to tree, and if they meet with a ſingle perſon, he is in dan 
ger of being torn to pieces by them; at leaſt they chatter, and ma 
a frightful noiſe, throwing things at him: they hang themſelves b 


the tail, on the boughs, and ſeem to threaten him all the way | } 
paſſes ; but where two or three people are together they uſually ſcanl ! 
per away. , 
Natives.]J Beſides the Indians in this country, there is anoth 
ſpecies of a fair complexion, delicate habit, and of a ſmaller flatu by ( 
than the ordinary Indians. Their diſpoſitions too are more ſoſt an 
effeminate ; but what principally diſtinguiſhes them is their 
weak blue eyes, which, unable to bear the light of the ſun, ſee beam The 
by moon-light, and from which they are therefore called moon-ey 
Indians. . 7 
Inhabitants Commerce and Chief Towns.) The original inhabitant he 
of Spain are variouſly intermixed with the negroes and Indians. Thel 
- intermixtures form various gradations, which are carefully dill The 
guiſhed from each other, becauſe every perſon expects to be regard 
ed in proportion as a greater ſhare of the Spaniſh blood runs in A 
veins. 1 he firſt diſtinction, ariſing from the intermarriage of | * 
whites with the negroes, is that of the Mulattoes, which 5 b 
known. Next are the tercerones, produced from a white and mum * 
From the intermarriage with theſe and, the whites ariſe the G *| 
terones, who, though {ill nearer the former, are diſgraced 1. ry 


Z7 1 
93 4 » 


— — — K — 


£ * 


Peru. SPANISH AMERICA 635 
es int of negro blood. But the produce of theſe and the whites are 
the Quinterones, which is very remarkable, are not to be diftinguiſh+ 
from the real Spaniards, but by being of a ſtill fairer complexion. 
The ſame gradations are formed in a contrary order, by the inter- 
0 nirture of the mulattoes and the negroes; and beſides theſe; there 9 
ire a thouſand others, hardly diſtinguiſhable by the natives them. 
elves. The commerce of this country is chiefly carried on from the 


N — of Panama, Carthage na, and Porto Bello; which are three . 
of Mo cf tbe moſt conſiderable cities in Spaniſh America; and each con- 
tining ſeveral thouſand inhabitants. Here there are annual fairs 
= for American, Indian, and European commodities. Among the 
re a 2atural merchandize of Terra Firma, the pearls found on the coaſt, 
21 icularly in the bay of Panama, are not the leaſt conſiderable. 
u of An immenſe number of negro ſlaves are employed in fiſhing for theſe, 


and have arrived at wonderful dexterity at this occupation, They are 
fmetimes however devoured by fiſh, particularly the ſharks, while 
they dive to the bottom, or cruſhed againſt the ſhelves of the rocks, 
The government of Terra Firma is on the ſame footing with that of 
Mexico. 


g b 
„ an a 
eſom 
1 
ound 
eptc 
* SITUATION AND EXTENT, 
| | 
4 b Miles. Degrees. 
Length 1800 the tor and 25 South latitude. 
F equator 5 So 
Breadth 500 : between J 60 and 81 Welt longitude, 


Boundaries. ] ROUNDED by Terra Firma, on the North ; by 
2 the mountains, or Cordeleiria's des Andes, Eaſt; 
aol e Chili, South; and by the Pacific ocean, Welt. 


ſt al 
| Diviſions, Provinces. Chief Towns. 
a. The North diviſion { Quito — — : re 
Lima, 77-30 W. lon, 
an The Middle diviſion C Lima, or Los Reyes 12-15 8. lat. 
Thek Cuſco, and Callao. 
0 The South diviſion : Los Charcos — : — 
* 
{ th Sear, Bays, and Harbours.] The only ſea which borders on Peru is 


the Pacific ocean or South-Sea. The principal bays and harbours 
are Payta, Malabrigo, Cuanchaco, Coſma, Vermeio, Guara, Callao, 
te port town to Lima, Vlo, and Arica. 


Rivers.) There is a river whoſe waters are as red as blood. The 
4 O 2 | * Tivers 


— 
a - — . 4 5 — ded —— Y e 
* K e _ 4 F 
ad — — 
T = - 1 — 
”- #% # 


%. 


ww SPANISH AMERICA- 


l * 
3 4 . — 


rivers Granda, or Cagdalena, Oronoque, Amazon, and Plata, x; 
in the Andes. js) — 5 2 | | 
A great many other rivers riſe in the Andes, and fall into the p. 
Cific ocean, between the equator and eight degrees B. lat. 
There are ſome waters, which, in their courſe, turn into lone 
and fountaiiis of liquid matter, called Coppey, reſembling pitch an 
tar, and uſed by the ſeamen for the ſame purpoſG. 


© Soil and Climate.] Though Peru lyes within the torrid zone, yet 
Having on one fide the South-ſea, and on the other the great ridg 
of the Andes, it is not ſo ſtifled with heat as the other tropical coun 
tries. The ſky too, which is generally cloudy, fhields them frod 
the direct rays of the ſun ; but what is extremely ſingular, it ney 
rains in Peru. This defect, however, is ſufficiently ſupplied by 
ſoft kindly dew, which falls regularly every night on the ground 
and ſo refreſhes the plants and graſs, as to raciice in many place 
the greateſt ſertility. Along the ſea - coaſt Peru is generally a dr 
barren ſand, except by the banks of rivers, where it is extreme 
fertile, as are all the low lands in the inland country. 


Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral productions. ] There are many gol 
mines in the Northern part, not far from Lima, Silver too is pro r:: 
duced in great abundance in various provinces : but the old mines 
are conſtantly decaying, and new ones daily opened. The town 
ſhift with the mines. That of Potoſi, when the filver there 
found at the eaſieſt expence, (for now having gone ſo deep, it is no on: 
ſo eaſily brought up) contained 90, ooo ſouls, Spaniards and Indi 
ans, of which the latter were ſix to one. The Northern part of Pe 

ru produces wine in great plenty, Wool is another article of iy & | 
produce, and is no leſs remarkable for its fineneſs, than for the ani d 
mals on which it grows; theſe they call lamas and vicunnas. They ino 
lama has a ſmall head, in ſome meaſure reſembling that of a horſe ci 
and ſheep at the ſame time. It is about the ſize of a ſtag, its upper boch 
lip is cleft like that of a hare, through which, when enraged, it (pity is n 
a kind of venomous juice, which os ah the part it falls on. The own 
fleſh of the lama is agreeable and ſalutary, and the animal is not on- bon 
ly uſeful in affording wool and food, but alſo as a beaſt of burden have 
It can endure amazing fatigue, and will travel over the ſteepeſt f ll: 
mountains with a burden of 60 or 70 lb. It feeds very ſparingly, bai 
and never drinks. The Vicunna is ſmaller and fwifter than the u-. one 
ma, and produces wool ſtill finer in quality. In the vieunna too nl b 
is found the Bezoar ſtones, formerly regarded as a ſpecific againl 
poiſons. The next great article in their produce and commerce 15 eme 
the Peruvian bark, known better by the name of Jeſuits bark. The ddr 
tree which produces this invaluable drag, grows principally in che ht 
mountainous parts of Peru, and particularly in the province of .o 
to. The weſt bark is always produced in the high and rocky grounds; 
the tree which bears it, is about the ſize of a cherry tree, and pro: Pere. 
duces a kind of fruit, reſembling the almond. But it i only he BY (1. 
bark, which has theſe excellent qualities which renders it ae 
in intermitting fevers, and ather diſorders to which dai ep 
ence extends the application of it. Guinea, or Cayenne pepp® ® 
we call it, is produced in the great abundance in the vale = 


—— — —— —— ͤ R. — 
. 


. —— es ie. — — es 
| * — * > F 


7 * 


„ SPANISH AMERICA „„ 
« +-diftrit in the Southern parts of Peru, from whenee they ex- 
port it annually to the value of 600 crowns... Peru is likewiſe 

be only part of Spaniſh America which produces quickſilver, an 

wick of immenſe value, conſidering the various purpoſes to which 

+is applied, and eſpecially the puriſivation of gold and ifilver. The 
wincipal mine of this ſingular metal is at a place called Guancaveli- 

©, where it is found in a whitiſh maſs reſembling brick ill 'burned. 

This ſubſtance is volatiliſed by fire, and received in Ream by a com- 
bination of glaſs veſſels, where it condenſes hy means of a little wa- 

ter at the bottom of each veſſel, and forms a pure heavy liquid. 


Manufatures, Trade, and Cities. ] The city of Lima is the capital 
of Peru, and of the whole Spanith empire; its ſituation, in the mid- 
de of a ſpacious, and delightful valley, was fixed upon by the famous 
Pizarro, as the moſt proper for a city, which he expected would 
preſerve his memory. It is ſo well watered by the river Rimac, that 
tie inhabitants, like thoſe of London, command a ftream, each for 
his own uſe. There are many very magaificeat ſtructures, parti- 
early churches, in this city; though the houſes in general are 
built of Cight materials, the equality of the climate and want of rain, 
rendering Rone houſes unneceſſary; and belides it is found, that 
thelz are more apt to ſuffer by ſhocks of the earth, which are fre- 
great and dreadful all over this province. Lima is about two 
kagues from the ſea, extends in length two miles, and in breadth 
one and a quarter. It contains about 60, ooo inhabitants, of whom 
the whites amount to a ſixth part. One remarkable fact is ſufficient © 
0 demonſlrate the wealth of this city. When the viceroy, the duke | 
& la Palada, made his entry into Lima in 1682, the inhabitants, to 
& him honour, cauſed the fireets to be paved with ingots of filver, | | 
mounting to ſeventeen millions ſterling. The merchants of this 
ety may be ſaid to deal with all the quarters of the world, and that 
doth on their own accounts, and as factors for others. What there 
sn0 immediate vent for, the merchants of Lima. purchaſe on their | 
The own accounts, and lay up in warehouſes, knowing that they muſt 
on: bon find an outlet for them, ſince by one channel or other they 
den be a communication with almoſt every commercial, nation. But 
epel ill the wealth of the inhabitants, all the beauty of the ſituation, and 
it, of the climate of Lima, are not ſufficient to compenſate for 
eee diſaſter, which always threatens, and has ſometimes actually 
o bf allen them, In the year 1747, a moſt tremendous earthquake 
aint BE il three fourths of this city level with the ground, and entirely 
ce 1 ©:molilied Callao, the port town belonging to it. Never was any 
The celruction more terrible or perfect, not more than one of 3000 in- 
the Nbitants being left to record this dreadful calamity; and he by 2 
Qu'- WW F0ri lence the moſt ſingalar and extraordinary imaginable.— This | 


nds; rn wo happened to be on a fort which overlooked the harbour, 
FIceved in one minnte the inhabitants running from their houſes 
be utah terror and confuſion ; the ſea, as. is uſpal on ſuch oc- 


ae receding to a conſiderable diſtance, returned in mountain- 
» Wav2s, foaming with the violence of the agitation, buried the 
maditants for erer in its. boſom, and immediately all was ſilent ; 
dle ſame wave. waich deſtroyed the town, droke à little boat by | 


+ 


| . We 1 
66 SPANISH AMERICA 


do is next to Lima in populouſneſs, if not ſuperior to it. It i 


The creoles, and all the other deſcendents of the Spaniards, accord 


the place where the man Rood, into which he threw himſelf; 27 
vas ſaved. Cuſco, the ancient capital of the Peruvian empire, . 
already been taken notice of. As it lyes in the mountainons 5 dur 
try, and at a diſtance from the ſea, it has been long on the dectind 
But it is ſtil] a very conſiderable place, and contains above 40.0 
inhabitants, three parts Indians, and very induſtrious in manufz⸗ 
turing baize, cotton, and leather, They have alſo both here an 
in Quito, which ſhall be mentioned directly, a particular taſte { 
painting, and their productions in this way, ſome of which hay 
been admired in Italy, are diſperſed over all South- America, Qu 

$h 


Cuſco, an inland city, and having no mines in its neighbourhoo 
is chiefly famous for its manufactures of cotton, wool, and flax 
which ſupply the conſumption over all the kingdom of Peru. 


F Inhabitants, Manners, and Government.) It has been gueſſed b 
ſore writers, that in all Spaniſh America, there are about th 
millions of Spaniards and creoles of different colours; and undoubt 
edly the number of Indians is much greater; though neither in an 
reſpect proportionable to the wealth, fertility, and extent of the cour 
try. "The manners of the inhabitants do not remarkably differ oy 
the whole of the Spaniſh dominions. Pride and lazineſs are the tw 
predominant paſſions, It is agrees on by the moſt authentic travel 
lers, that the manners of Old Spain have degenerated in its colonic 


ing to the above diſtinctions, are guilty of many mean and pilfering 
vices, which a true born Caſtilian could not think ef but with det 

tation. It is in Lima that the viceroy reſides, whoſe authority er 
tends over all Peru, except Quito, which has been lately detachet 
from it. The viceroy is as abſolute as the king of Spain, but as hi 
territories are ſo extenſive, it is neceſſary that he ſhould part with 


ſhare of his authority to the ſeveral audiences or eourts eltabliſhe i ad 
over the kingdom. There is a treaſury court eſtabliſhed at Lin ratio 
for receiving the fifth of the produce of the mines, and certain tar vic 
paid by the Indians, which belong to the king of Spain. 20,06 
| to be 
— . —K—— Co 
peru, 
é port ; 
are h 
CHILE A 
ties 0 
| ef Ca 
SiTUATICN AND EXTENT. 
F Miles. Degrees. | 
Length 1200 1 25 and 45 South lat. 
Breazth 500 : between 3 65 and 85 Welt long- 


Boundaries.) ROUNDED by Peru, on the North; by « 1 
ö on the Eaſt; by Patagonia, on the Sour pw 

by the Pacific ocean, on the Weſt: __ 
1 

| # 


4 


FOI 
— A. 


wi, SPANISH AMERICA 663 


Diviſions. Provinces. Chief towns. 
| Sr * W. lon. 77. 
the Weſt ſide 21 lat. 34. 
2 ain er ne | 
. 1 Imperial 


ſte Eat ile J Cuyo, or Cutio 3 J 86 John de Frontiers, 


Lakes.) The principal lakes are thoſe of Tagatagua near St Jago, 
ind that of Paren. Beſides which, they have ſeveral falt-water 
lakes, that have a communication with the ſea part of the year. In 
formy weather the ſea forces a way through them, and leaves them 
fall of fiſh ; but in the hot ſeaſon the water congeals, leaving a cruſt 
o fine white ſalt a foot thick. : 


Bays, Seat, and Harbours.] The only ſea that borders upon Chili, 
i; that of the Pacific ocean on the Welt. | | 

The principal bays or harbours are Copiapo, Coquimbo, Govan- 
adore, Valpariſo, Iata, Conception, Santa Maria, La Moucha, 
Badivia, Brewers-haven, and Caſtro, 


Climate, Soil, and Produce.) Theſe are not remarkably different 
from the ſame in Peru. There is indeed no part of the world more 
faroured than this is, with reſpect to the gifts of nature; for here, 
not only the tropical fruits, but all ſpecies of grain, of whick a con- 
kderable part is exported, come to great perfection. Their animal 
produdtions are the ſame with thoſe of Peru, and they have gold al- 
molt in every river. 


Inhabitants.) This country is very thinly inhabited. The original 
natives are ſtill in a great meafure unconquered and uncivilized ; 
ud leading a wandering life, attentive to no object but their preſer- 
ntion from the Spaniſh yoke, are in a very unfavourable condition, - 
vith regard to population. The Spaniards do not amount to above 
20,000, and the Indians, negroes, and mulattoes are not ſuppoſed 
lo be thrice that number. 


Commerce.) The foreign commerce of Chili is entirely confined to 
eru, Panama, and ſome parts of Mexico. To the former they ex- 
port annually corn ſufficient for 60,000 men. Their other exports 
are hemp, which is raiſed in no other part of the South-Seas, hides, 
allow, and ſalted proviſions ; and receive in return the commodi- 


2 Europe and the Eaſt- Indies, which are brought to the port 
of Callao. | 


PARA- 


| . 8 N Ne 5 = | 
25 85 PARAGUAY, on LA PLATA. 


> SrTvarION AND ExTzNt. 
} 1 . 'f ' 
Length 15p0' | 775 and 37 South latirnds, 
Breath Hos botwee 50 and 75 Welt longitude. 

| Bexndarice.] ROUNDED by Amazonia, . on the North: b 
partes] B Braſil, Eaſt; by Patagonia, on the South; ang 

by Peru and Chili, Weſt. Wo | 


Diviſions. Provinces, Chief towns. 


have 

a Paraguay — Aſſumption * 

Eaſt diviſion Parana — (Ist Anne "4 = 

contains Guaira — C JCivida& Real . 

(ragua — Los Reyes * 

(Tucuman — 5 (St lago ＋ 

South diviſion 50 de la plata 5 Feen. W. Ion. * 

$1 < 3 C 54+ 8. lat. 34-35. 14; 

Bays and Lakes.] The principal bay is that at the mouth of the = 

river La Plata, on which ſtands the capital city of Buenos Ayres - 

N and cape St Antonio, at the entrance of that bay, is the-only pre be: 
1 montory. This country abounds with lakes, one of which is 1c * 
| miles long. Wy | Fe 
| | * a * Wo 
= Rivers. ] Beſides an infinite number of ſmall rivers, Paraguay il 
| watered by three principal ones, which united near the ſea, for ans 
the famous Rio de la Plata, or Plate River, and which annually ken. 

overflow their banks; and, on their receſs, leave them enriched - 

with a flime, that produces the greateſt plenty of whatever is com · d the 

mitted to it. | =p 

- . 1 [ » in thi val trad luffer 

Air, Soil, and Produce.) The principal province in this va W 8 

of which we have any knowledge, is that which is called Rio de l ur, i 

Plata, towards the mouth of the abovementioned rivers. F900 the kj 

vince, with all the adjacent parts, is one continued level, _— ap 

ted by not the leaſt hill for ſeveral hundred miles every pa 0s 

tremely fertile, and producing cotton in great quantities  t0 * Reer 

and the valuable herb, called paraguay, with a variety of 8 * 

prodigious rich paſtures, in which are bred ſuch herds 0 "y 1 bed 

that ĩt is ſaid the hides of beaſts are all that is properly _ — 

carcaſe being in a manner given into the bargain, A horſe 16 hover 


110% 


* * ArD—mů 8 = y 
7 » 
. = * 2 


ine ago might be bought for a dollar, and the uſual price of a beaſt 
hoſen out of a herd of 2 of 300, was only four rials. But contrary 
p the genegal nature of America, this country is deſtitute of woods: 
The air is remarkably ſweet and ſerene, and the waters of La Pla- 
pare equally pure and wholeſome. *, 


Firſt Settlement, chief City, and Commerce.] They Spaniards firſt 
licovered this country, by ſailing up the river La Plata in 1515, 
ind founded the town of Buenos Ayres, ſo-called on account of the 


vithin the mouth of it, where the river is ſeven leagues broad. This 
one of the moſt conſiderable towns. in South-America, and the 
ly place of traffic to the Southward of Brazil. Here we meet 
with the merchants of Europe and Peru, but no regular fleet comes 
here, as to the other parts of Spaniſh America; two, or at molt 
three, regiſter ſhips, make the whole of their regular intercourſe 
with Europe. Their returns are very valuable, conſiſting chiefly 
«the gold and ſilver of Chili and Peru, ſugar and hides. Thoſe 
vdo have now and then carried on a contraband trade to this city, 
have found it more advantageous than any other whatever. The 
teacfir of this contraband is now wholly in the hands of the Portu- 
nete, who keep magazines for that purpoſe, in ſuch parts of Bra · 
il as lye near this country. The trade of Paraguay, and the man- 
ters of the people, are much the ſame with thoſe of the, reſt of the 
anith colonies in South America. 

We cannot quit this country without ſaying ſomething of that ex- 
mordinary ſpecies of commonwealth, which the Jeſuits have erec- 
ted in the interior parts, and of which theſe crafty prieſts have en- 
Gavoured to keep all ſtrangers in the dark. | 

About the middle of laſt century thoſe fathers repreſented to the 
tourt of Spain, that their want of ſucceſs in their miſſions, was ow- 
ug to the ſcandal which the immorality of the Spaniards never fail» 
cd to give, and to the hatred which their inſolent behaviour cauſed 
in the Indians, wherever they came. They inſinuated, that, if it 
vere not for that impediment, the empire of, the goſpel might, by 
ttzir labours, have been extended into the moſt unknown parts of - A- 
nerica; and that all thoſe countries might be ſabdued to his Catho- 
le majeſty's obedience, without expence, and without force. This 
rmonſtrance met with ſucceſs : an uncontrouled liberty was given 
o the Jeſuits within the limits marked out to them: and the gover- 
nors of the adjacent provinces had orders not to interfere, nor to 
luffer any Spaniards to enter into this pale, without licence from the 
lthers, They on their part agreed, to pay a certain capitation 
az, in proportion to their flock; and to ſend a certain number to 
dhe king's works whenever they ſhould be demanded, and the miſ- 
ions ſhould become populous enough to ſupply them. | 

On theſe terms the Jeſuits gladly opened their ſpiritual campaign. 
* began by gatherin together about 50 wandering families, 
g a. they perſuaded to ſettle z and they united them into a lictle 
N This was the flight foundation upon which they built a 
peritruture, which has amazed the world, and added fo much 
Per, at the ſame time that it has brought on ſo much envy and 
4 P | jealouſy, 


any, SPANISH AMERICA: (6% 


ucellence of the air, on the South fide of the river, 50 leagues ' 


4 SAS a. 
EY 
- — Io 


bs SPANISH AMERITON,” poi 
Jealouſy, to their ſociety. For when they had made this beim. 
they laboured with ſuch indefatigable party, and with fuck Malter : 
policy, that,, by degrees, they mollified the minds of the ec 
vage nations; fixed the moſt rambling,” and ſubdued thofe to the 
government, who had long diſdained to ſubmit to the artis of t 
Spaniards and Portugueze. They prevailed upon thouſands of v4 
rious diſperſed tfibes to embrace their religion, and theſe ſoon in 
duced others to follow their example, magnifying the peace ar 
tranquility they enjoyed under the direction of the tathers. 

The Jeſuits left nothing! undone that could conduct to their re 
maining in this ſubjection, or that could tend to increaſe their num 
ber to the degrees requiſite for a well ordered and potent ſociety 

and it is faid that above 240,000 families, ſeveraf years ago, we 
ſubject to the Jeſuits, living in obedience, aud an awe bordering up 
on adoration, yet procured without any violence or conſtraint: Ih. 
the Indians were inſtructed in the military art with the moſt exat 
diſcipline, and could raiſe 60,c00 men well armed: That they live 
in towns; they were regularly clad ; they laboured in agrienlture 
they excrciſed manufactures; ſome even afpired to the elegant arts 
and that nothing could equai the obedienoe of the people of the 
miſſions, except their contentment under it. Some writers howeve 
have treated the character of theſe Jeſuits with great ſeverity, acc 
fing them of ambition, pride, and ot carrying their authority to ſuc 


an exceſs, as to cauſe even the magiſtrates, who are always chore Ha 
from among the Indians, to be corrected before them with ſtripe I 
and to ſuffer perſons of the higheſt diſtinction, within their juriſdi e ud 
tions, to kiſs the hem of their garments, as the greateſt honovr, th tree 
prieſts themſelves poſſeſs large property, all manufactures are theirs The 
the natural produce of the country is brought to them, and th les, 
treaſures annually remitted to the ſuperior of the order, ſeem t tile, 
evince that zeal for religion is not the only motive of their forming bot. 
theſe miſſions. The fathers will not permit any of the inhabitants 0 vil 
Peru, whether Spaniards, Meſtozos, or even Indians, to come with kid: 
in their miflions in Paraguay. Some years ago, when part of thi diſco 
territory was ceded by, Spain to the crown of Portugal, the Jeſuit work 
refufed- to comply with this diviſion, or to ſuffer themſelves to the ] 
transferred from one hand to another, like cattle, withont the e 
own conſent. And we were informed by the authority of the G: and x 
zette, that the Indians actually took up arms; but, notwithſtandin Wn | 
the exactneſs of their diſcipline, they were eaſily, and with a cor 4 th 
derable flavghter, defeated by the European troops, who were {el bull 
to quell them. ud 
land 

On a { 

the Ot 

dathe 

| 2 Th 

SPANISH ISLANDS IN AMERICA. ith 

aks 

a plac 


CUBA. Is ſituated between T9 and 23 degrees North = 
aud between 74 and 87 degrees Weſt longitude, 100 2 


| U 


miles in length, and generally about 70 miles in breadth. A chain 
o hills run through the middle of the iſland from Eaſt to Weſt, but 
he land near the ſea is in general level and flooded in the rainy ſea- 
on, when the ſun is vertical, This noble iſland is ſuppoſed to have 
the belt ſoil, for ſo large a country, of any in America. It pro- 


ginger, long-pepper, and other ſpices, caſſia, fiſtula, maſtic and a- 
bes. It alſo produces tobacco and ſugar, but from the want of 
hands, and the lazineſs of the Spaniards, not in fuch quantities as 
night be expected It, is owing to the ſame cauſe that this large 
and does not produce, including all its commodities, ſo much for 
exportation as our {mall iſland of Antigua. r b 
There are ſeveral good harbours in the iſland, which belong to 
the principal towns, as that of St Jago, facing Jamaica, ſtrongly 
ftuated, and well fortiſied, but neither populous nor rich. That of 
the Havannah, facing Florida, which is the capital city of Cuba, 
and a place of great ſtrength and importance, containing abort 
2000 houſes, with a great number of convents and — It 
was taken, however, by the courage and perſeverance of the Eng- 


ty of peace. Beſides theſe, there is likewiſe Cumberland harbour, 
und that of Santa Cruz, a conſiderable town zo miles Eaſt of the 
Havannah. 

I: is ſituated between the 175th and 23ſt degree North latitude, 


iſdic and the 67th and 74th of Welt longitude, lying in the middle be- 
„th reen Cuba and Porto-Rico, and is 450 miles long, and 150 broad. 
heir | be face of the country preſents an agreeable variety of hills, val- 


les, woods, and rivers, and the ſoil is allowed to be extremely fer- 
tile, producing ſugar, cotton, indigo, tobacco, maize, and caſſava 


vild in the woods, and as in South America, are hunted for their 
hes and tallow only. In the moſt barren parts of the rocks, they 
liſcovered formerly ſilver and gold. The mines however are not 
work:d now. The North-Weſt parts, which are in the poſſeſſion of 
the French, conſiſt of large fruitful plains, which produce the ar- 


f thi 
eſuit 
to b 


75 We already mentioned in vaſt abundance. This indeed is the beſt 
: Cal wol fruitful part, of the molt fertile iſland in the Weſt-Indies, 
(ding perhaps in the world. 


| The molt ancient town in this iſland, and in all the new world, 
bvuk by Europeans, is St Domingo. It was founded by Bartholo- 
ew Columbus, brother to the admiral, in 1504; who gave it that 
row ws crea of his father Dominic, and by which the whole 
3122 named. eſpecially by the French. It 1s ſituated 
ma ſpacious harbour, and is a large well built city, inhabited, like 
0 her Spanich towns, by a mixture of Europeans, creales, mu- 
= multees, and negroes, 
e towns are, cape St Francois, the capital, which is 
** - ed nor pulled in. It contains about Soo Whites and 
Face of conſiderable trade, and the ſeat of the French govern- 
4 P 2 mens 


ona 


e fe 


Cuba. "+ SPANISB AnERICAN Is LAN s. 667 
gourh of cape Florida, and 75 North of Jamaica, and is near 700 


duces all the commodities known, in the Weſt- Indies, particularly 


I troops ia the laſt war, but reſtored in the 63d article of the trea - 


root. The European cattle are ſo multiplied here, that they run 


24anc, though inferior in point of ſize, is a good port, 


R rp _ 


668 Szanrsn AMERICAN IS 4198 
ment in that iſland. They have two other towns conſiderable | 
their trade, Petit Guaves, and port Louis. An 
It is computed that the exports of the French, from the above 
mentioned places, are not leſs in value than 4,200,0001. Ther 
likewiſe carry on a contraband - trade with the Spaniards, which ;M 
much to their advantage, as they exchange French manufaQures for 
Bpaniſh dollars. , w_ l 
PORTO RICO. ] Situated between 64 and 67 degrees Weſt longi 
tude and in 18 degrees North latitude, lying between Hiſpaniol, 
and St Chriſtopher's is 100 miles long, and 40 broad, The foi 
is beautifully diverſified with woods, vallies, and plains; and is ex 
tremely fertile, producing the ſame fruits as the other iflands, 1 
is well watered with ſprings and rivers j but the iſland is unhealth 
ful in the rainy ſeaſons. | «Mt | 
Porto Rico, the capital town, ſtands on a little iſland on the Nortl 
ſide of the main iſland, forming a capacious harbour, and joined tc 
the chief iſland by a cauſeway, and defended'by forts and batteries 
which render the town almoſt inacceiſible. It was, however, take 
by Sir Francis Drake, and afterwards by the earl of Cumberland 
It is better inhabited than moſt of the Spaniſh towns, becauſe it i 
the centre of the contraband trade carried on by the 'Engliſh and 
French with the king of Spain's ſubjects. | 


VIRGIN ISLANDS. ] Situated at the Eaſt end of Porto Rice 
are extremely ſmall, 


TRINIDAD. Situated between 59 and 62 degrees Welt longi 
*tude, and in 10 degrees North latitude, lyes between the iſland of 
Tobago and the Spaniſh Main, from which it is ſeparated by the 
ſtreights of Paria. It is about go miles long, and 60 broad; and 
is an unhealthſul, but fruitful ſoil, producing ſugar, fine tobacco 
indigo, ginger, variety of fruit, and ſome cotton trees, and India 
corn. It was taken by Sir Walter Raleigh, in 1595, and by the 
French in 1676, who plundered the iſland, and extorted money tron 
the inhabitants. oy un 


 _MARGARETTA.] Situated in 64 degrees Weſt longitude anc 

in 11 North Jatitude, ſeparated from the coaſt of New Andaluſa 
in Terra- Firma, by a ſtreight of 24 miles, is about 40 miles ' 
length, and 24 in breadth; and being always verdant, affords 
molt agreeable proſpect. The iſland abounds in paſture, in maize 
and fruit; but there is a ſcarcity of wood and water. There 
once a pearl fiſuery on its coaſt, which is now diſcontinued. 


CHILOE, on the coaſt of Chili, has a governor and ſome bat 


bours well fortified. a 


' 


JUAN FERNANDES.] Lying in 83 degrees Welt login 5 
and 33 South Jatitude, 300 miles Weſt of Chili, is uninhabited " n 
havying ſome good harbours, it is found extremely convenient tour 


the Engliſh cruiſers to touch at and water; and here they aue 0 


4 "I * _ , F a 4 a a 

e e a q p 5 a . 2 

9 * * ? g N | _— 1 
0 - 2 C „ 


, * 


al. PORTUGUESE AMERICA 665 


Anger of being diſcovered, unleſs when, as is generally the caſe, 
their arrival in the South · ſeas, and their motions have been made 
known to the Spaniards by the Portugueze, This ifland is famous 
for having given riſe to the celebrated romance of Robinſon Cruſoe. 
One Alexander Selkirk, a Scotſman, was left aſhore in this ſolit 
place by his captain, where he lived ſome years, until he was diſco- 
rered by captain Woodes-Rogers, in 1709; when taken up, he had 
forgot his native language, and could ſcarcely be underſtood, ſeem - 
ing to ſpeak his words by halves. He was drefſed in goats ſkins, 
would drink nothing but water, and it was ſome time before he 
could reliſh the ſhip's victuals. During his abode in this iſland, he 
had killed 500 goats, which he caught by running them down; and 
he marked as many more on the ear, which he let go. Some of theſe 
mere caught, 30 years aſter, by lord Anſon's people; their ve- 
nerable aſpect and majeſtic beards, diſcovered ſtrong ſymptoms of 
antiquity. . 

Selkirk, upon his return to England, was adviſed to publiſh an 
account of his life and adventures in his little kingdom. He put his 
papers into the hands of Daniel Defoe, to prepare them for publi- 
cation: but that , induſtrious gentleman, by the help of theſe papers, 
and a lively fancy, transformed Alexander Selkirk into Robinſon 
Cruſoe, and returned Selkirk his papers again, after defrauding 
him, by this piece of craft, of the benefits he was ſo juſtly entitled 
to hope from them. 

The other iſlands that are worth mentioning are, the Gallipago 
iſes, ſituated 400 miles Weſt of Peru, under the equator ; and thoſe 
in the bay of Panama, called the King's or Pearl Iſlands. 


r Cw ——......—..̃—— KT 


PORTUGUEZE AMERICA, 


CONTAINING BRAZIL, 


SITUATION AND EXTENT. 


Miles. oy Degrees. | 


the equator and 35 8. latitude. 


Length 2500 
Breadth — 0 n 35 and 60 Well longitude. , 


Boundaries.) ROUN DED by the mouth of the river Amazon, 
and the Atlantic ocean, on the North ; by the 
lame ocean, on the Eaſt ; by the mouth of the river Plata, South; 
and by a chain of mountains, which divide it from Paraguay and the 
fountry of Amazons, on the Weſt. 


On the coal are three ſmall iſlands, where ſhips touch for worm 
| | ons 


1 * oy : . 1 1 ; * kd rn ; A 6 * 
% PORTUGUESE AMERICA. l 
f Y Gons.in their voyage to the South-feas, viz, Fernando, St f 
| and St Catharine's. | 3 


Sear, Bays, Horlouri, and Capes,} The Atlantic Ocean valle 
the coaſt of Brazil on the North-Eaſt and Eaſt, ar ſeyeral fine 
hays and harbours ;. as the harbours of Panambuco, All-Sainte 
Porto-Seguro, the port and harbonr /of Riv Janeiro, the port of 
St Vincent, the harbour of St Gabriel, and the port of St Salvador, 


of 
; 


on the North ſhore of the river La Plata. qui 
The principal capes are, cape Roque, cape St Auguſtine, 5 
Trio, and cape St Mary, the moſt Southerly promontory of Brazil, 1 


Face of the Country, Air, Climate, and Rivers,] The name of Bra. 15 
zil was given to this country, becauſe, it was obſerved to abound 
with a wood of that name. To the Northward of Brazil, which 
Hes almoſt under the equator, the climate is hot, boiſterous, and 
vnwholeſome, ſubject to great rains and variable winds, particularly 
in the months ot March and September, when they have ſuch de- 7 
tages of rain, with ſtorms and tornadoes, that the country is over. 


| flowed. But to the Southward, beyond the tropic of Capricorn, * 
it enjoys a more ſerene and wholeſome, air, refreihed with the ſoft * 
breezes of the ocean on one hand, and the cool breath of the moun- Ty 
tains on the other. The land near the coaſt is in general rather low * 
than high, but cxceeding pleaſant, it being interſperſed with mea- Bra: 
dows and woods, but on the Weſt, far within land, are mountains the | 
from whence iſſue many noble ſtreams, that fall into the great rivers 8 

Amazon and La Plata, others running acroſs the country from Eaſt WW ..... 
to Weſt till they fall into the Atlantic ocean. 18 

. Soil and Praduce.] In general the ſoil is extremely froitſul, pro- — 
ducing ſugar, which being clayed, is whiter and finer than our mul- . 
covado, as we call our unrefined ſugar. Alſo tobacco, hides, indi- rery 
go, ipecacuanha, balſom of copaibo, Brazil wood, which is of 2 Wi vom 
red colour, hard and dry, and is chiefly uſed in dying, but not the mer! 
red of the beſt kind. 09 ir 

The animals here are the ſame as in Peru and Mexico, The pro- date 
duce of the ſoil was found very ſufficient for ſubſiſting the inhab:- Ther 
rants, until the mines of gold and diamonds were diſcovered ; theſe, 8 creat 
with the ſugar plantations, occupy ſo many hands, that agricuiture wack 
lyes neglected; and, in conſequence, Brazil depends upon Europe but i 
for its daily food. four 
2 Th 

Inhabitants, Manners, and Cuſtoms.] They are deſcribed as a pev: than 
ple, who, while ſunk in the moſt effeminate luxury, practiſe che mol porta 
deſperate crimes. Of a temper hypocritical and diffembling ; * 1... 

ittle ſincerity in converſation, or honeſty in dealing; lazy, proud) ties a 
and cruel. In their diet, penurious ; for, like the inhabitants © thern 
moſt Southern climates, they are much more fond of thew, ſtats for th 
and attendance, than of the pleaſures of free ſociety, and of a to Eu 
table; yet their feaſts, which are ſeldom made, are ſumptuous tb Th 
extravagance, When they appear abroad, they cauſe themſeſves ey. 


be carried out in a kind of cotton hammock, called 9 


- - 


z . ' 
tif, POR TUGUESE AMERICA? Gt 
«ich are borne on the negroes ſhoulders, by the help of a bamboo, 
hott twelve or fourteen feet long. Moſt of theſe hammocks are 
due, and adorned with fringes of the ſame colour: they have 4 
ielret pillow, and above the head a kind of teſter, with curtains ; 
i that the perſon cargjed cannot be ſeen, unleſs he pleaſes; but 
may either lye down or fit up, leaving on his pillow. When he has 
; mind to be ſeen, he pulls the curtains afide, and ſlates his ac. 
quaintance whom he meets in the ſtreets: for they take a pride int 
complimenting each other in their hammocks, and will even hold 
og conferences in them in the ſtreets'; but then the two flaves 
vho carry them, make uſe of a ſtrong well-made ſtaff, with an iron 
fork at the upper end and pointed below with iron: this they Rick 
at in the ground, and reſt the bamboo, to which the hammock is 
fred on two of theſe, till their maſter's buſineſs or compliment is 
over. Scarce any man of faſhion, or any lady, will paſs the ſtreets 
without being carried in this manner. | | 


Trade and chief Towns.) Rio de Janeiro, the reſidence of the vices 
roy, and by fome reckoned the capital of the Brazils, is a rich and 


formed by the river of the ſame name. It is ſometimes called St 
Sebaſtian from the name of its citadel. It has the advantage of an 
excellent port, which is now more reſorted to than any other in 
Brazil, on account of the gold and diamonds which are found in 
the mountains of this and the neighbouring province. n 
St Salvador, or as it is ſometimes called, the city of Bahia, is ſi- 
trated on the bay of All- Saints, and has a commodious harbour. 
[t is built upon a high, ſteep rock, having the ſea upon one fide, 
and a lake, forming a creſcent, inveſting it almoſt wholly, fo as 
nearly to join the fea, on the other. This ſituation makes it in a 
manner impregnable by nature, and they have beſides added to it 
rery ſtrong fortifications. It is populous, magnificent, and, beyond 
compariſon, the moſt gay and opulent city in the Brazils, and was for- 
merly the reſidence of the viceroy. A conſiderable trade is carried 
on in this city; the ſtreets are crouded with negroes of both ſexes, 
quite naked, except a' piece of cloth wrapped round their middles. 
There are alſo ſhops, and other public places, where, theſe poor 
creatures ſtand for ſale, in the ſame manner as the cattle in our 
markets, The trade of the Brazils is at preſent not only very great, 
but increaſes yearly; and is undoubtedly one of the richeſt, moſt 
fourithing, and moſt growing eſtabliſhments of any in America. 
Their exports of ſugar, within 50 years, is crown much greater 
than it was, though anciently it made almoſt the whole of their ex- 
portable produce, and they were without rivals in trade. Their to- 
bacco is remarkably good, though not raiſed in ſuch large quanti- 
tits as formerly in our American colonies. The Northern and Sou- 
mern parts of Brazil abound with horned cattle ; theſe are hunted 
E oy hides only, of which no leſs than 20,000 are fent annually 
urope, et 
The Portugueze were a conſiderable time poſſeſſed of Brazil before 
ey diſcovered” the treaſures of gold and diamonds, which have 
Ae made it ſo conſiderable. The gold alone, great part of which 


— 


populous city, ſtanding about two Teagues from the ſea, on a bay - 


n * | . | = = K A * 
* 5 * - "1 * E ** 1 7 * 


| 62 PORTUGUESE "AMERICA, Bra, 
3 is coined in America, amounts to near four millions ſterlin b 

part of this is brought from their colonies in Africa, togethes y b 

ebony and ivory. . | | 
I ̃ be chief commodities the European ſhips carry thither in return 
43 are not the fiftieth part of the produce of 'P ugal; they conſiſt : | 
* the woollen goods, of all kinds, from England, France and Hot 
1 land; the linens and laces of Holland, France, and Germaay ; the 
8 filks of France and Italy; filk and thread ſtockings, hats, lead 


tin, pewter, iron, copper, and all ſorts of utenſils wrought in theſe 
metals, from England; as well as falt-filh, beef, flour, and cheeſe 


Oil they have from Spain; wine, with ſome fruit, is nearly all they *. 
are ſupplied with from Portugal. | nd 

Hiſtory and Government.) This country was firſt diſcovered by A - 
mericus Veſpuſio, in 1498, but the Portugueze did not plaut it til y 
1549, when they fixed themſelves at the Bay of All-Saints, andi :ri 
founded the city of St Salvador. They met with ſome interruption cot 
at firſt from the court of Spain, who conſidered the whole continent. tour 
of South America as belonging to them. However, the affair was de 


made up by treaty ; and it was agreed that the Portugueze ſhouldi ity 
poſſeſs all the country lying between the two great rivers Amazon Fre 
and Plata, which they ſtill enjoy. The French alſo made ſome at- file, 
tempts to plant colonies on this coaſt, but were driven from thence if; 
by the Portugueze, who remained without a rival till the year 1580 id: 
when Don Sabaſtian the king of Portugal, loſt his life in an expedi- 
tion againſt the Moors in Africa, and by that event the Portugueze G 
Jo} their liberty, being abſorbed into the Spaniſh dominions. bn. 
The Dutch, ſoon after this, having thrown off the Spaniſh yoke, d, 4 
attacked the poſſeſſions of the Portugueze; they took almoſt all theirf tr 
fortreſſes in the Eaſt Indies, and then turned their arms upon Bra-W thro: 
. zil, where they took ſeven of the Captainſhips or provinces ; and WY 4 (er 
would have ſubdued the whole colony, had not their career been Wi bci 
ſtopt by the archbiſhop, at the head of his monks, and a few ſcat- fili 
tered forces. They were, however, about the year 1654, entire Mar. 
driven out of Brazil; but their Weſt- India company ſtill continuing the a 
their pretenſions to this country, and haraſſing the Portuguese at WW v:s | 
ſea, the latter agreed, in 1661, to pay the Dutch eight tons of gold 
to relinquiſh their intereſt in that country; which was accepted ; and dr 
the Portugueze have remained in peaceable poſſeſſion of all Brazil fra ba. 
that time, till about the end of 1762, when the Spaniſh governor 08 12 in 
Buenos Ayres, hearing of a war between Portugal and Spain, took WW diy c 
after a month's ſiege, the Portugueze frontier fortreſs called St 5B tl c 
crament; but by the treaty of peace it was reſtored, = Ui 
The- French, from being one of the greateſt European powers u mee 
North America, and to the Britiſh colonies, a very dangerous neigh 
bour and rival; have now loſt all footing there, but on the foutn-W the F 
ern continent they have ſtill a ſettlement which is called Cayenne, A ling 
Equinoctial France, and is ſituated between the equator | 
degree of North latitude, and between the 5oth and 55th of Wei v:lli: 
longitude. It extends 240 miles along the coaſt of Guiana, and ned pl: 
300 miles within land ; bounded by Surinam, on the North; by the BW: free 
Atlantic Ocean, Eaſt ; by Amazonia, South; and by Guiana, Wii 
The chief Town is Caen. _— : ak 


* 


Farxcn Anzrican TIsLanns., 6735 
All the coaſt is very low, but within land there are fine bil 
ſor ſettlements; the French have, however, not yet extend- 
4 them ſo far as they might; but they raiſe the fame commodities 
chick they have from the Weſt India iflands, and in no inconfider- 
ble quantity. They have alſo taken poſſeſſion of the iſland of Ca · 
nne, on this coaſt, at the mouth of the river of that name, which 
b about 45 miles in circumference. The iſland is very unhealthy t 
wt having ſome good harbours, they have here ſome ſettlements, 
hich raiſe ſugar and coffee. | 


MARTINICO, ſituated between 14 and 15 deg. of North lat. 
md in 61 deg. Weſt lon. lying about 40 leagues North Welt of Bar- 
adoes, is about 60 miles in length, and half as much in breadth: 
The inland part of it is hilly, from which are poured out upon eve- 
i ide, a number of agreeable and uſeful rivers, which adorn and 
arich this iſland in a high degree. The produce of the ſoil is ſugary 
otton, indigo, ginger, and ſuch fruits as are found in the neigh» 
touring iſlands. But ſugar is here, as in all the Weſt India Iſlands 
the principal commodity, of which they export a conſiderable quan- 
ity annually. Martinico is the reſidence of the , governor of the 
French iſlands in theſe ſeas. Its bays and barbours art numerous, 
iſe, and commodious ; and ſo well fortified, that they uſed to bid 
lefance to the Engliſh. However, in the laſt war, this iſland was 
Kded to the Britiſh empire, but reſtored at the treaty of peace. 


CUADALUPE is fituated in 16 deg. North lat. and in 62 Weſt = 
lon. about zo leagues North of Martinico, and almoſt as much South 1 
Antigua; being 45 miles long and 38 broad. It is divided into 1 
two parts by a ſmall arm of the ſea, or rather a narrow channel, 
irongh which no ſhips can venture; but the inhabitants paſs it in 
iferry-boat, Its ſoil is equally fertile with that of Martinico, pro- 
lucing ſugar, cotton, indigo, ginger, Cc. This iſland is in a flou- 
ning condition, and its exports of ginger almoſt incredible. Like 
Martinico, it was ſormerly attacked by the Engliſh, who gave up > 
ving ue attempt; but in 1759 it was reduced by the Britiſh arms, and 
t A BT given back at the peace of 1463, 


and ST Lucia. ] Situated in 14 deg. North lat. and in 61 deg. Welt 

rom Wi ln. so miles North Weſt of Barbadoes, is 23 miles in length, and 

r 0 88 2 in breadth. It received its name from being diſcovered on the 

ook Wh day dedicated to the virgin martyr St. Lucia. The Engliſh firſt ſet- 

da tld on this iſland in 1637. From this time they met with various 
dufortunes from the natives and French; and at length it was as 
Feed on between the latter and the Engliſh, that this iſland, toge : 


geber with Dominica and St Vincent, ſhould remain neutral. But 
uth-W the French, before the late war broke out, began to ſettle theſs 
„beds, which, by the treaty of peace, were yielded up to Great 
Git britain, and this ifland to France. The ſoil of St Lucia, in the 
- Rallizs, is extremely rich. It produces excellent timber, and abounds 


pleaſant rivers, and well ſituated harbours; and is now declare 
i tree port under certain reſtrictions. 7 FT 


4 Q TE Sr 


* 


2 


614” Dores Aurea 1% 
8 BARTHOLOMEW, DESEADA, and MARIG 41 


are three ſmall iſlands lying in the neighbourhood-of A 5 
St Chriſtopher's, and are of no great conſequence'tothe French, e fie 
cept in time of war, when they give ſhelter to an incredible nk ; 150 
of privateers, which greatly annoy our Weſt-India trade, © 1d 
| has nun 
| may 
1 hb. 
| | 1 
DUTCH AMERICA. 7 
22 , a \ - ces: 
Containing 8 URIN A M, on the Continent. 
NOI of SOUTH-AMERICA, A 
THIS country was once in the poſſeſſion of England, but of n 1 
1 great value whilſt we had it, and was therefore ceded to th FT 
Dutch in exchange for New-York ; with two or three ſmall and bar * 
ren iſlands in the North ſea, not far from the Spaniſh Main, * 
Surinam, or Dutch Guiana, is ſituated between 5 and 7 de 
North lat, extending i60 miles along the coaft from the mouth of 
river Oronoque, North to the river Maroni, or French Guia © 
South. The climate of this country is generally reckoned unwhole 
ſome; and a conſiderable part of the coaſt is low and covered with 
water. The chief ſettlement is at Parimaribo, a large and populot 
town, built on the river Surinam; and the Dutch have extende 
their plantations 30 leagues above the mouth of this river, Thi 
colony is now in the molt flouriſhing ſituation, not only with Europe gr 
but with the Weſt- India iſtands. Their chief trade conſiſts in ſugar 
a great deal of cotton, coffee of an excellent kind, tobacco, fla Grey 
ſkins, and ſome valuable dying drugs. 
ST 
land 
DuTcn IsLANDS IN AMERICA, 15 
st EUS TA TTA. QITUATED three leagues Notth-Weltof * 
| Chriſtopher's, is only a mountain abou beck 
29 miles in compaſs, riſing out of the ſea like a pyramid, andalms Toon 
round. But, though ſo ſmall, and inconveniently laid out by ! —_ 
ture, it is ſaid to contain 5000 whites, and 15,000 negroes. i der; 
fides of the mountain are laid out in very pretty ſettlements ; d * 
they have neither ſprings nor rivers. They raiſe here ſugar and, 4 
bacco ; and this iſland, as well as Curaſſou, is engaged in the Spe with | 
nifh contraband trade. Its fituation renders it the Rrongelt of al u . 
Weſt-India iſtands, there being but one good landing-place, ws * 
may be eafily defended by a Go men; and the haven is comman of gre 
ed by a ſtrong fort. n great 


CURASSOU. } Situated in 12 degrees North latitude, 97 f 
Jeagues from the c ontinent of Terra Firma, is 30 miles long ok 


Bas. ws 
SY 


Danisn Antiicin 1. 14885 675 


wad, The iſland is not only barren, and dependent upon the rains 
ve its water, but the harbour is naturally one of the worſt in Ame- 
rica: yet the Dutch have entirely remedied that defect; they have 
chis harbour one of the largeſt and by far the moſt elegant 
nd cleanly towns in the Welt-Indies. The public buildings are 
umerous and handſome z the private houſes commodious ; and the 
nagazines large, convenient, and well filled. All kind of labour 
« here performed by engines; ſome of them ſo well contrived, that 
lips are at once lifted into the dock. 

The trade of all the Dutch American ſettlements was originally 
arried on by the Weſt- India company alone: at preſent ſuch ſhips 
u go upon that trade, pay two and a half per cent. for their licen- 
des: the company, however, reſerve to themſelves the whole of 
phat is carried on between Africa and the American iſlands. 

The other iſlands, Bonaire and Aruba, are inconſiderable in them- 
ſelves, and ſhould be regarded as appendages to Curaſſou, for which 
they are _— employed in raiſing cattle and other proviſions. 

The ſmall iſlands of Saba and St Martin's, ſituated at no great 
ftance from St Euſtatia, hardly deſerve to be mentioned: the lat» 
ter is partly inhabited by the Engliſh. p 


\ 


DanisH ISLANDS IN AMERICA, 


ST, THOMAS.] Sar in 64 degrees Weſt longitude, 
| and 18 North latitude, about 15 miles in 
ercumference- It has a ſafe and commodious harbour. 


dr CROIX, ox SANTA CRUZ.] Another ſmall and unhealthy 
und, lying about five leagues Eaſt of St Thomas, ten or twelve 
lagues in length, and three or four where it is broadeſt. Theſe 
lands, ſo long as they remained in the hands of the Daniſh Weſt- 
India company, were ill managed, and of little conſequence to the 
Danes; but the late king of Denmark bought up the company's 
lock, and laid the trade open; and fince that time the land of St 
Tomas has been fo greatly improved, that it is ſaid to produce 
upwards of 3000 hogſheads of ſugar of 1000 weight each, and o- 
thers of the Weſt-India commodity in tolerable plenty. In time of 
rar, privateers bring in their prizes here for fate ; and a great ma- 
bf veſſels trade from hence along the Spaniſh Main, and return 
_ money 1n ſpecie or bars, and valuable merchandize. As for 
ata Cruz, from a perfe deſert a few years ſince, it is beginning 
lo ſettle faſt ; ſeveral perſons from the Engliſh iſlands, ſome of them 
if great wealth, have gone to ſettle there, and have received very 
Heat encouragement to do ſo. 


4Q2 A 


* * * * * e ys ve we * = , * A + 80 Wo 
1 by b \ — . * , * $ 4 N 
'Y FP \ . N _ "0 , 
5 x * * 4 o y * * e * TE * a 
n * v.% 
Y = 


+ p * ag 
& * 
— = 
.-. * 
— L 4 . - 
2 
* * - : * - - - 2 * 4 
- 6- Ws P 676 7 S 2 PIGS 43 
; i 
CY - = 
£4 * a, 4 , 
5 Sa ö 1 49 Ly As tn Q : 
Y » % : = 
# 0 


r 


— 


A general hiſtory of America, from its firſt diſco 
* very, to the preſent time, 


"HIS vaſt continent was entirely unknown to the European 
and all other nations in the world, till the year 1492, whe: 

jt was diſcoyered by Chriſtopher Columbus, a native of Geno 
This man, having ſome how or other obtained a more juſt notio 
of the figure of the earth than moſt of his cotemporaries, projette, 
a ſcheme of ſailing to the Eaſt Indies by directing his courſe Weſ 
ward. The reaſon he had for ſo ſtrange a' project was indeed thi 


errors in the maps which were made of thoſe Eaſtern countries a hi 
that time; for by them the Eaſt Indies were plaęed fo very far tt in 
the Eaſtward, that it appeared to Columbus, the navigation mn ni 
go a great deal more than half round the globe before they coul( 
come at any part of them, In conſequence of this ſuppoſition, the ſel 
thought was very rational, that it behoved to be a much ſhorter for 
and leſs dangerous voyage to ſail Weſtward, as they behoved tofal dia 
in with the Eaſtern parts of Aſia before they had ſailed round hal of 
the circumference of the globe | as no part of the world can be dif: an 
tant from another more than half this circumference, provided tall ce: 
ſhorteſt way to it is taken. But how Columbus, at that time, wher pul 
it was reckoned a mortal hereſy to ſay. that the earth was round and 
came to have notions ſo different from the common, and not on wit 
to imagine that the earth was ſpherical, but that its circumference ve: 
did not extend to a certain ſpace, we are not certainly informed alm 
Be this, however, as it will, Columbus was willing that his o the 
country ſhould reap the benefits of his ſuperior knowledge in this te and 
ſpe : and therefore he communicated his new ſcheme to the courk 1 
of Genoa, who rejected it as an abſurdity, He then applied fuc je 
ceſſively to the court of France, Britain, and Portugal; from ral: 
of which he met with a reception of the ſame kind; and had t 6co 
mortification to find, that his own ſuperiority of knowledge to d inc: 
reſt of mankind only ſerved to make him their laughing ſtock. 1 pou 
laſt he applied to Spain, where, after eight years attendance, pF Me. 
Haps the curioſity natural to her ſex, induced Queen Iſabella to nie fon 
money on her jewels, in order to defray the expence of hs expedl n a 
tion. . | over 
In 1492, then Columbus ſet fail from Spain, with three ſhips, M mh; 
ſearch of countries hitherto undiſcovered, and which almolt ere the 
dne believed to exiſt only in imagination. His ſailers were wü kr, 
great difficulty kept in ſubjection; but being kept in hopes of land in n 
lometimes by great flights of birds, and at others, by oberg the « 

uantities of weeds floating in the ſea, they were kept from vm! laws 
f out into open mutiny, till the diſcovery of land, after a voJage uy 


of 33 days, put an end to their fears. In this voyage the w_—_ 


4 W „ . N N _ tet 
OY __re IE 7 i * 9 . dt 


9 - *. 


: — * 
N ak | 
< . «4 x. 
a M 1 N 1 Cr ff e 


among Columbus's ſailors, that they were with difficulty prevented 
from throwing him overboard. k $ | | 

Columbus 2 landed on one of the Bahama iſlands; but findin 
nothing there of conſequence, he ſteered Southward, where he dii- 
covered the iſland of Hiſpaniola, which promiſing conſiderable quan- 
tities of gold, he therefore propoſed to make the centre of his diſeo · 
reries; and having left ſome of his companions, as the baſis of a 
new colony, he returned to Spain. 

Ou his return, he found no difficulty in procuring neceſſaries for 
a ſecond voyage. A fleet of 17 ſail was immediately fitted out, and 
1500 perſons, ſome of them of high rank, prepared to accompany 
Columbus, now when they hoped to ſhare his good fortune. In 
this ſecond voyage he diſcovered moſt of the Welt India iflands 3 
and in a third, he diſcovered the continent of Swuth Americo, ſail - 
ing up the river Oronoco. After having thus diſcovered the conti- 
nent, and made ſettlements in the iſlands of America, the malice of, 
his enemies prevailed ſo far againſt him, that he was ſent to Europe 
in irons. His innocence, however, got the better of their calum- 
nies, and this great man died in peace at Valladolid in 1505. 


ſelves as infamous by their cruelties, as Columbus had been famous 
for his virtues, Theſe iſlands contained mines of gold; the In- 
dians only knew where they were placed, and the extreme avarice 
of the Spaniards, hurried them to acts of the moſt thocking violence 
and cruelty againſt thoſe unhappy men, who, they believed, con- 
cealed from them part of their treaſure. In a few days they depo- 
pulated Hiſpaniola, which contained three millions of inhabitants; 
and Cuba, that had about 600,000. Bartholomew de la Caſas, a 
vitneſs of thoſe barbarous depopulations, ſays, that the Spaniards 
yent out with their dogs to hunt after men, The unhappy ſavages, 
almoſt naked and unarmed, were purſued like deer into the thick of 
the foreſts, devoured by dogs, killed with gun-ſhot, or ſurprized 
and burnt in their habitations. 

The Spaniards had hitherto only viſited the continent: but con- 
jecturing that this part of the new world wou!d afford a ſtill more 
raluable conqueſt, Fernando Cortez was diſpatched from Cuba with 
boo men, 18 horſes, and a ſmall number of field pizces. With this 
neonſiderable force, he propoſed and actually did fubdue the moſt 
powerful ſtate on the continent of America: this was the empire of 
Mexico ; rich, powerful, and inhabited by millions of Indians, paſ- 
honately fond of war, and then headed by Montezuma, whoſe fame 
m arms ſtruck terror into the neighbouring nations, and extended 
over one half the globe. This empire had ſubſiſted for ages; its 
inhabitants were a poliſhed and intelligent people. They knew, like 
the Lopyptians of old, whoſe wiſdom is ſtill admired in this particu» 
lar, that the year conſiſted nearly of 365 days. Their ſuperiority 
in military affairs was the object of admiration and terror over all 
the continent ; and their government, founded on the ſure baſis of 
laws combined with religion, ſeemed to bid defiance to time itſelf, 

exieo, the capital of the empire, fituated in the middle of a ſpaci · 
dus lake, was the nobleſt monument of American induſtry : it com- 


municated 


— = 


of the compaſs was firſt diſcovered,. which Sb ſuch an alarm 


The ſucceeding governors of Cuba and Hiſpaniola rendered them- 


— 


n Mrs TOA 
| _municated wih the continent by immenſe cauſewayty. which were 


with gold and filver, and the ſumptuous palaces of Montezuma, 


good reaſon, however, to diſtruſt the affected politeneſs of this em- 


l . 39 * * * * N 


: W 
a | % 4 5 
* Fn 


£arried through the lake. The city was admired for its build; 
all of tone, its ſquares and market-places, the ſhops which glittered 
{ome erected. on columns of jaſper, and containing whatever was 
moſt rare, curious, or uſeful. Cortez, in his march, met with fee. 
ble oppoſition from the nations along the coaſt of Mexico, who were 
terrified at their firſt appearance. Wherever the Spaniards marched 
they ſpared no age or ſex, nothing ſacred or profane. At laſt, the 
inhabitants of Tlaſca, and ſome other ſtates on the coaſt, deſpairing 
of being able to oppoſe them, entered into their alliance. Cortez, 
thus re-inforced, marched onward to Mexico; and in his progreſs 
diſcovered a volcano of ſulphur and falt-petre, whence he could ſup- 
ply himſelf with powder, Montezuma heard of his pro with- 
gut daring to oppoſe it, though he commanded 30 v of whom 
each could appear at the 1s, of 100,000 combatants, armed with 
Þows and arrows. WE 4 
By ſending a rich preſent of gold, which only whetted the Spa- 
niſh avarice, Montezuma haſtened the approach of the enemy. No 
oppoſition was made to their entry into his capital. Cortez had 


peror, under which he ſuſpected ſome plot for his deſtruction to be 
concealed ; but he had no pretence for violence; Montezuma loaded 
him with kindneſs, and with gold in greater quantities than he de- 
manded, and his palace was ſurrounded with artillery, the moſt 
frightful of all engines to the Americans. At laſt a circumltance 
fell out which afforded Cortes a pretext for beginning hoſtilities. I 
order to ſecure a communication by ſea to receive the neceſſary te. 
inforcements, he had erected a fort, and left a ſmall garriſon behind 
him at Vera Cruz, which has fince become an emporium of com» 
merce between Europe and America. He underſtood that the A- 
mericans in the neighbourhood had attacked this garriſon in his ab- 
fence, and that a Spaniard was killed in the action, that Montezu- 
ma himſelf was privy to this violence, and had iſſued orders that 
the head of the flain Spaniard ſhould be carried through his pronn- 
ces, to deſtroy a belief, which then prevailed among them, that the 


Europeans were immortal. Upon receiving this intelligence, C. « th 
tez went in perion to the emperor, attended by a few of his mo and a 
experienced officers. Montezuma pleaded innocence, in which C. Pana. 
tez ſeemed extremely ready to believe him, though at the ſame tune N vrite. 
he alledged that the Spaniards in general would never be perſuaded da | 
oſ it unleſs he returned along with them to their reſidence, which WW the cc 
would remove all jealouſy between the two nations. Thus Monte- H « ca 
zuma, in the middle of his own palace, and ſurrounded by bu Ma 
guards, gave himſelf up a priſoner, to be diſpoſed of according to ſerved 
the inclination of his enemies. Cortez had now got into his hand 1 
an engine by which every thing might be accompli l ed. The Ame = 
ricans had the higheſt reſpect, or rather a ſuperſtitious orit! 
for their emperor. - Cortez, therefore, by keeping him in his power *redul 
. allowing him to enjoy every mark of royalty but his freedom, man. bag 
tained an eaſy ſovereignty over Mexico, by governing its Pre m 


Did the Mexicans, grown familiar with the Spaniards, begin = ud th 
bate of their reſpect? Montezuma was the firſt to teach * 11 


* 4 4 . he A 
8 PT) 9 * 
F — 
| "7 
, 


8 


neee 679 
gliteneſs. Was there a tuchult, excited through the cruelty or ava- 
de of the Spaniards ? Montezuma aſcended the battlements of his 

ſon, and harrangued his Mexicans into order and ſubmiſſion. 
This farce continued a long while; but on one of theſe occaſions, 4 
lone from an unknown hand, ſtruck the emperor on the temple; 
vhich in a few days occaſioned his death. The Mexicans, now e- 
Lied a new prince, the famous Gatimozin, who from the beginning 
k{covered an implacable animoſity againſt the Spaniſh name. Un- 
kr his conduct the unhappy Mexicans ruſhed again(t thoſe very men, 
#hom a little before they had offered to worlhip. The Spaniards, 
lowever, by the dextrous management of Cortez, were too firmly 


is efabliſhed to be expelled from Mexico. The immenſe tribute which 
p- the grandees of this country had agreed to pay to the crown of 
a- Spain, amounted to 600,000 marks of pure gold, beſides an ama- 
m ing quantity of precious ſtones, a fifth part of which was diſtributed 
th among the ſoldiers, ſtimulated their avarice and their courage, and 


made them willing to periſh rather than part with fo precious a 

. The Mexicans, however, made no ſmall efforts for inde- 
pendence z but all their valour, and deſpair itſelf, gave way before 
what they called the Spaniſh thunder. Gatimozin and the empreſs 
were taken priſoners. This was the prince who, when he lay ſlreteh- 
ed on burning coals, by order of one of the receivers of the king of 
Spain's exchequer, who inflicted the torture to make him diſcover 
into what part of the lake he had thrown his riches, ſaid to his high 
prieſt, condemned to the ſame puniſhment, and making hideous 
tries, ( Do you take me to lay on a bed of roſes ?” The high prieſt 
remained ſilent, and died in an act of obedience to his ſovereign. 
Cortez, by getting a ſecond emperor into his hands, made a com- 
plete conqueſt of — with which the Caſtille D'Or, Darien, 
and other provinces, fell into the hands of the Spaniards. 

While Cortez, and his foldiers, were employed in reducing Mex“ 
io, they got intelligence of the empire of Peru, which extended in 
length near zo degrees, and was the only other country in America, 
which deſerved the name of a civilized kingdom. This extenfive 
country, more important than Mexico itſelf, was reduced by the en- 
deavours, and at the expence, of three private perſons. The names 
of theſe were, Francis Pizarro, Almagro, and Lucques, a prieſt, 
add a man of confiderable fortune. The two former were natives of 
Panama, men of low education. Pizarro, could neither read nor 
write, They failed over into Spain, and without difficulty, obtain- 
«da grant of what they ſhould conquer, Pizarro then ſet out for 
the conqueſt of Peru, with 250 foot, 60 horſe, and 12 ſmall pieces 
of cannon, drawn by flaves from the conquered countries. 

Mango Capac, the founder of the Peruvian erapire, having ob- 
krved that the people of Peru were naturally ſuperititious, and had 
a particular veneration for the ſun, pretended to be deſcended from 
that luminary, whoſe worſhip he was ſent to eſtabliſh, and whoſe au- 
wority he was entitled to bear. By this ſtory, he eafily decerved a 
dulous people, and brought a large extent of territory under his 
ſuiſdiction. A larger till he ſubdued by his arms; but both the 
bote, and the deceit, he employed for the moſt laudable purpoſes, 

there was no part of America, where agriculture and the arts 
were 


AC TO REESE ET ART 7 Fi Kr TT AT FAST nu 7 Kr 


* 9 
= 


_ 686 Ht $1 T0 8 $7 a8 
and * manners. A race of prinees' ſucceeded Mango, Fy 


| 


ſtinguiched by the title of Yncas, and revered/by the x 
— of their great God the Sun. The evelfth NS 
now oni the throne, and named Atabalipa. His father Guaiana Ca. 
pac, had conquered. the province of Quito, which now makes a 
part of Spaniſh Peru. To ſecure himſelf in the poſſeſſion, he had 
married the daughter of the natural prince of that country, and of 
this marriage was ſprung Atabalipa. His elder brother, named 
Hueſcar, of a different mother, had claimed the ſucceſſion to the 
whole of his father's dominions, not excepting Quito, which devolved 
on the younger by a double connection. A civil war had been lin- 
- , dled on this account, which ended in favour of Atabalipa, who de- 
tained Hueſcar, as a priſoner, in the tower of Cuſco, the capital 
of the Peruvian empire. Atabalipa, inſtead of oppoſing the Spa- 
niards, ſet himſelf to procure their favour. Pizarro, however, 
whoſe temper partook of the meanneſs of his education, had nv 
conception of dealing gently with thoſe he called Barbarians, 
While he was engaged in conference therefore with Atabalipa, his 
men; as they had been previouſly inſtructed; furiouſly attacked the 
guards of that prince, and having butchered 5000 of them, as 
they were preſſing forward, without regard to their particular ſafety 
to defend the ſacred perſon of their monarch, ſeized the emperor 
himſelf, whom they carried off to the Spaniſh quarters. Atabalipz 
was not long in their hands before he began ts treat of his ranſom, 
On this occaſion, the ancient ornaments, amaſſed” by a long line of 
magnificent kings, the hallowed treaſures of the moſt magnificent 
temples} were brought out to ſave him, who was the ſupport of the 
kingdom, and of the religion. While Pizarro was engaged in thi 
negociation, by which he propoſed, without releaſing the emperor 
to get into his poſſeſſion an immenſe: quantity of his beloved gold, 
the arrival of Almagro cauſed ſome enibaraſſment in his alla 
The friendſhip, or rather the external ſhew of friend{hip between 
theſe men, was ſolely founded on the principle of avarice. When 
their intereſts therefore happened to interfere, it was not to be 
thought that any meaſures could be kept between them. Pizarro 
expected to enjoy the molt conſiderable ſhare of the treaſure arilng 
from the emperor's ranſom, becauſe he had the chief hand in acqus 
ring it. Almagro inſiſted on being upon an equal footing z and 
length, left the common cauſe might ſuffer by any rupture betweet 
them, this diſpoſition was agreed to. The ranſom is paid in with- 
out delay, a ſum exceeding their conception, but not capable i 
gratiſy their avarice. It exceeded 1,500,0001. i ſterling, and coul. 
dering the value of money at that time, was prodigious: and th * 
dividend, after deducting a fifth for the king of Spain, and th laugh 
ſhares of the chief commanders and officers, each private fold q : : 
had above 2000 l. Engliſh money. Y Nin 8 
The immenſe ranſom was only a farther reaſon ſor 2 Au. pute 
balipa in confinement, until they diſcovered whether he ba 7 which 
ther treaſure to gratify their avarice. But whether they deſieres* b hor 
had no more to give, and were unwilling to employ their woche 


guarding à prince, from whom they eapected ng farther advan 


Quiſhir 


bis v. 


AAS FEE 


51 


— 


LE FEE 


* — 6 9 : "> * 
4+ a i ct 1 1 88 
N — R . a 


AM A n 1 0 1 

ir that Pizarro had conceived an averſion againſt the Peruvian em- 
rot, it is certain, that* by his command Atabalipa was put to 
lath. Upon the death of the Ynca, the principal nobility ſet up 
the full brother of Hueſcar; Pizarro ſet up a ſon of Atabalipa; and 
wo generals of the Peruvians endeavoured to eſtabliſh themſelves by 
the afiitance of the army, Theſe diſtractions, which in another 
empire would have been extremely hurtful, and even here at ano- 
ther time, were at preſent rather advantageous to the Peruvian affairs. 
The candidates fought againſt one another, their battles accuſtomed 
the harmleſs people to blood; and ſuch is the preference of a ſpirit 
of any kind raiſed in a. nation to total lethargy, that in the courſe 
of thoſe quarrels among themſelves, the inhabitants of Peru aſſum- 
ed ſome courage againſt the Spaniards, whom they regarded as the 
ultimate cauſe of all their calamities. The loſſes which the Spa- 
nards met with in theſe quarrels, though inconſiderable in them- 
eres, were rendered dangerous, by leſſening the opinion of their 
migcibility, which they were careful to preſerve among the inhabi- 
ants of the new world. This conſideration engaged Pizarro to 
conclude a truce ; and this interval he employed in laying the foun- 
dations of the famous city Lima, and in ſettling the Spaniards in 
the country. But as ſoon, as a favourable opportunity offered,. he 
rezewed the war againſt the Indians, and after many difhculties, 
made himielf maſter of Cuſco, the capital of the empire. While he 
was engaged in theſe conqueſts, new grants and ſupplies arrived 
from Spain. Pizarro obtained 200 leagues along the ſea- coaſt, to 
the Southward of what had been before granted, and Almagro 200 
kagues to the Southward of Pizarro's government. This diviſion 
vecalioned a warm diſpute between them, each reckoning Cuſco 
rithin his own diſtrict But the dexterity of Pizarro brought about 
areconciliation. He perſuaded his rival, that the country which 
really belonged to him, lay to the Southward of Cuſco, and that 
t was no way inferior in riches, and might be as eaſily conquered 
k Peru, He offered him his aſſiſtance in the expedition, the ſucceſs 
al which he did not even call in queſtion. 

Almagro, that he might have the honour of ſubduing a kingdom 
for himſelf, liſtened to his advice; and penetrated, with great dan- 
ger and difficulty, into Chili; loſing many of his men as he paſſed 
wer mountains of an immenſe height, and always covered with 
tow, He reduced, however, a very conſiderable part of this coun- 
ry, But the Peruvians now made an effort for regaining their ca- 
pital, in which, Pizarro being indiſpoſed, and Almagro-removed | 
it a great diſtance, they were well nigh ſucceſsful. The latter, 
lowever, no ſooner got notice of the ſiege of Cuſco, than, relin- 
Quilting all views of diſtant conqueſts, he returned, to fecure the 
rand object of their former labours. He raiſed the ſiege with great 
laughter of the aſſailants : but having obtained "oſſeſiion of the ci- 
iy, he was unwilling to give it up to 1 who now approached 


Nun an army, and knew of no other enemy but the Peruvians. This 
uute occaſioned a long and bloody ſtruggle between them, in 
vhich the turns of fortune were various, apd the reſentment fierce 
" both ſides, becauſe the fate of the vanquiſhed was certain death. 


* 


us was the lot of Almagro, who, in an advanced age, fell a vic- 


4 R tim 


* * y 
be.” 632 
| tim to the ſecurity of a rival, in whoſe dangers and triumphs ! 


the hopes of the Peruvians, who have never fince ventured to ma 


Pizarro, now foje maiter of the field, and of the richeſt empire it 


rs TOUR, 


had long ſhared, and with whom, from the beginnin * 
prize, 15 had been intimately connected. Dorf i Soby of thi þ 
civil war, many Peruvians, ſerved in the Spaniſh Armies, and The 
ed, from the practice of Chriſtians, to butcher" ohe another. Tha 
blinded nation, however, at length opened their eyes, and took 
very remarkable reſolution. They ſaw the ferocity of the Europeans 
their unextinguiſhable reſentment and avarice, and they conjectured 
that theſe paſſions would never permit their conteſts todublide. LM 
us retire, ſaid they, from among them, let us fly to aur mountains 
they will ſpeedily deſtroy one another, and then we may return it 
peace to our former habitations. This reſolution was inſtantly pu 
in practice; the Peruvians diſperſed, and left the Spaniards in thei 
capital. Had the force on each fide heen exactly equal, this ſingu 
lar policy of the natives of Peru, might have been attended with fi 
ceſs. But the victory of Pizarro put an end to Almagro's life, and 


— 


head againſt the Spaniards. 


the world, was ſtill urged on by his ambition, to undertake ney Wa 
enterprizes. The Southern countries of America, into which hi 
had ſome time be! ore diſpatched Almagro, offered the richeſt eon co! 
queſt. Towards this quarter, the mountain of Potoſi, . compoſed oi =: 
entire ſilver, had been diſcovered, the ſhell of which only remain u 
at preſent. . He therefof followed the tract of Almagra into Chil ch 
and reduced another part of that country. Orellana, one of high ':: 
commanders, paſſed the Andes, and failed down to the mouth of ge 
river of Amazons: an immenſe navigation, which diſcovered a nic and 
and delightful country, but as it is moſtly flat, and therefore nol ':: 
abounding in minerals, the Spaniards then, and ever ſinee, negle m0 
ted it. : | i 7 on 

The ſucceſs of Columbus ſoon inſpired the other European nag ©: 
tions with a deſire of making new diſcoveries. About the time 08 © 
his third voyage, the Portugueze diſcovered Brazil, Sebaſtian- Ca 
bot, a native of Briſtol diſcovered the North-Eaſt coaſts, which nou a 
form the Britiſh Empire in. America, and Arnericus Veſpuſius, a mer; 


chant of Florence, failed to the Southern continent, and being 
man of addreſs, had the honour of giving his name to this quartes inf 


of the globe. ted 
| | the 
Before we enter upon the hiſtory of the Britiſh ſettlements in A nel 
merica, however, it will be proper to give ſome account of the ori- elo 
ginal inhabitants of thoſe provinces which are now inhabited bill ben 
our own countrymen z as the cuſtoms of thoſe Indians are ſo ver) ſrc 
unlike thoſe of any other nation, that an account of them cane uit 
fail to be entertaining. | a ur 
The bodies of the Indians in general, where the rays of the on" 
are not too violent, are uncommonly ſtraight and well proportione mo 
Their muſcles are firm and ſtrong; their bodies and heads flatti ſon 
which is the effect of art; their Ae are regular, but their con - 
tenances fierce, their hair long, black, lank, and as ſtrong as that ” 


ef a horſe. The colour of their ſkin is a reddiſh brown, — 


14 n AW 
L * = 3 Sa 7 | Bah A. a _ FL 5 14 . 
_ 4's 4 = 4 
" : 


7 r 
* 


NN & -  - an 
wong them, heightened, by the conſtant uſe of bears fat aad 
gant. Their behaviour to thoſe about them is, regular, mode, 
ind reſpectful. Ignorant of the arts of amuſement, of which that 
of ſaying trifles agreeably is one of the moſt confiderable, they ne- 
wer ſpeak but when they have fomething important to obſerve; and 
ill their actions, words, and even looks, are attended with ſome 
neanilg. As they have no particular object to attach them to one 
place rather than another, they fly wherever they expect to find the 
neceſſaries of life in greateſt abundance. Cities, they have none. 
The different tribes or nations are extremely ſmall, when compared 
vith civilized ſocieties, in which induſtry, arts, agriculture, and 
commerce, have united a vaſt number of individuals, whom a com- 
plicated luxury renders uſeful to one another. Lheſe ſmall tribes 
ive at an immenſe diſtance; they are ſeparated by a deſert fron- 
tier, and hid in the boſom of impenetrable and almoſt boundleſs 
ſoreſts. a f i 

There is eſtabliſhed in each ſociety a certain ſpecies of government, 
which over the whole continent of America prevails with very litte 
variation ; becauſe over the whole of this continent the manners and 
way of life are nearly ſimiliar and uniform. In every ſociety there 
is to be conſidered the power of the chief and of the elders ; and ac- 
cording as the government inclines more to the one or to the other, it 
may be regarded as monarchical, or as a ſpecies of ariſtocracy. A- 
mong thoſe tribes which are moſt engaged in war, the power of the 
chiet is naturally predominant, becauſe the idea of having a military 
leader, was the firlt ſource of his ſuperiority, and the continual exi- 
gencies of the ſtate requiring ſuch a leader, will continue to ſupport 
and even to enhance it. His power, however, is rather perſuaſive 
than co-ercive: he is reverenced as a father, rather than feared as a 
monarch, He has no guards, no priſons, no officers of juſtice, and 
one act of ill- judged violence would pull him from the throne. The 
elders, in the other form of government, which may be conſidered 
4 an ariſtocracy, have no more power. In ſome tribes indeed there 
are a kind of hereditary nobihty, whoſe influence being conſtantly 
augmented by time, is more conſiderable. But this ſource of power, 
ls 100 refined to be very common among the natives of America. In 
molt countries therefore, age alone is ſufficient for acquiring reſpect, 
fluence, and authority. Among thoſe perſons bulineſs is conduc- 
ted with the utmoſt ſimplicity. The heads of families meet toge- 
ther in a houſe or cabin, appoint d for the purpoſe, Here the buſi- 
nels is diſcuſſed, and here thoſe of the nation, diſtinguiſhed for their 
cloquence or wiſdom, have an opportunity of diſplay ing thoſe ta- 
lens. "Their orators expreſs themſelves in a bold figurative (tile, 
ſronger than refined, or rather ſoftened nations, can well bear, and 
uit jeſtures equally violent, but often extremely natural and expreſ- 
"we, When the buſineſs is over, and they happen to be well pro- 
wed in food, they appoint a feaſt upon the occaſion, of which al- 
woll the whole nation partakes, The feaſt is accompanied with a 
long, in which the real, or ſabulous exploits of their forefathers are 
— They have dances too, though chiefly of the military 
ind, and their muſic and dancing accompanies every feaſt. 

L often happeus, that thoſe different tribes or nations, ſcattered 
4 R 2 as 


3 . N ST —_— 


- 


. N „ * th 
l * » E WF 0: PT" „ 
* 


5 , BSW je <5" 
684 H TT 0 © SS 
as they are at an immenſe diſtance from one another, meet in the! 
excurſions after prey. If there ſubſiſts no animoſity between ti. ; 
which ſeldom is the caſe, they behave in the moſt friendly and er. | 
teous manner. But if they happen to be in a flate of war, or ial 
there has been no previous intercourſe between them, all who are 
= friends, are deemed enemies, they fight with the moſt ſarage 

ur y. \ ' 

War, if we except hunting, is the only employment of the men: 
as to every other concern, and even the little agricuſture they ey 
joy, it is left to the women. Their moſt common motive for enter. 
ing into war, when it doel not ariſe from an accidental rencounter, 
is either to revenge themſelves for the death of ſome loſt friend, or 
to acquire priſoners, who may aſſiſt them in their hunting, and 
whom they adopt into their ſociety. "Theſe wars are either under. 
taken by ſome private adventurers, or at the inſtance of the whole 
community. In the latter caſe, all the young men, who are dif. the 
poſed to go out to battle, give a bit of wood to the chief, as a token ſhe 
of their deſign to accompany him. The chief, who is to conduc ty, 


them, falts ſeveral days, during which he converſes with no one, cor 
and is particularly careful to obſerve his dreams, which are general. We: 
Iy as favourable as he could defire. A variety of other ſuperſtitions tac 
and ceremonies are obſerved. One of the molt hideous is ſetting the I far 
war-kettle on the fire, as an emblem that they are going out to de- ruſl 
vour their enemies, which amongſt ſome nations muſt formerly have hi 
been the caſe, ſince they (till continue to exprels it in clear terms, rep 


and uſe an emblem ſignificant of the ancient uſage. Then they diſ- the 
patch a porcelain, or large ſhell to their allies, inviting them to come ind 
along, and drink the blood of their enemies. ec 

Having finiſhed all the ceremonies previous to the war, they iſſue hap 
ſorth with their faces blackened with charcoal, intermixed with whe 
ſtreaks of vermilion, which give them a moſt horrid appearance. ing 
Then they exchange their clothes with their friends, and diſpoſe of land 


all their finery to the,women, who accompany them to a conſidera - toa 


ble diſtance to receive thoſe laſt tokens of friendſhip. out 

The great qualities in an Indian war are vigilance and attention, WW rr: 
to give and to avoid a ſurprize; and indeed in theſe they are ſu - far 
perior to all nations in the world. Accuſtomed to continual wan- proc 


dering in the foreſts, having their perceptions ſharpened by keen ne- nan 


ceſſity, and living in every reſpe according to nature, their exter- dou! 
nal ſenſes have a degree of acuteneſs which at firſt view appears in. mol 
credible. They can trace out their enemies, at an immenſe diſtance, cer 


by the ſmoke of their fires, which they ſmell, and by the tracks of WW ors 
their feet on the ground, imperceptible to an European eye, but 
which they can count and diſtinguiſh with the utmoſt facility, The 
even diſtinouiſh the different nations with whom they are acquainted, 
and can determine the preciſe time when they paſſed, where an EN. 
ropean could not diſtinguiſh footſteps at all. Theſe circumſtances, 
however, are of ſmall importance, becauſe their enemies are 00 - 
acquainted with them. When they get out, therefore, they — 
care to avoid making uſe of any thing by which they might run the 
danger of a diſcovery. They light no fire to warm themſelves, * 
to prepare their victuals; they lye cloſe to the ground all 2 


% 


n F * 
— 2 £ FP _ 


A K N 1 N 


travel only in the night; and marching along in files, he that cloſes 
the rear, diligently . covers with leaves the tracks of his own 
feet, and alſo of theirs who preceded him. When they halt to 
refreſh themſelves, ſcouts are ſent out to reconnoitre the country, 
and beat up every place where they ſuſpe& an enemy may lye con- 2 
cealed, In this manner they enter unawares the villages of their <Y 
foes, and while the flower of the nation are engaged in huntin 
maſſacre all the children, women, and helpleſs old men, or 


Dn; 

en- ſoners of as many as they can manage, or have ſtrength enough y 
er · to be uſeful to their nation. But when the enemy is apprized 

er, their deſign, and coming on in arms againſt them, they throw them- 


flves flat on the ground among the withered herbs and leaves, 
which their faces are painted to reſemble. Then they allow a part 
to paſs unmoleſted, when all at once, with a tremendous ſhout, ri- 
ſing up from their ambuſh, they pour a ſtorm of muſquet-ballets on 
their foes. The party attacked returns the ſame cry. Every one 
ken ſhelters himſelf with a tree, and returns the fire of the adverſe par- 
lud ty, as ſoon as they raiſe themſelves from the ground to give à ſe- 


ne, cond fire. Thus does the battle continue until one party is ſo much 
ral. weakened, as to be incapable of farther reſiſtance : But if the force on 
Ons each fide continues nearly equal, the fierce ſpirits of the ſavages, in- 
the WW famed by the loſs of their friends, can no longer be reſtrained. They 
de- ruſh upon one another with clubs and hatchets in their hands, magni- 
ave ſing their own courage, and inſulting their enemies with the bittereſt 11 
ms, teproaches. They trample and inſult over the dead bodies, tearing J 
dil- the ſcalp from the head, wallowing in their blood like wild beaits, 
"me ind ſometimes devouring their fleſh. The flame rages on till it 
meets with no reſiſtance, ' then the priſoners are ſecured, thoſe un- * 
fſue happy men, whoſe fate is a thouſand times more dreadful than theirs 


nth A vio have died in the field. The conquerors ſet up a hideous howl- 
ice. ng to lament the friends they have loſt. They approach in a me- 
ol lancholy and ſevere gloom to their own village, a meſſenger is ſent 


era · to announce their arrival, and the women with frighttul ſhriek; come 
| out to mourn their dead brothers, or their huſbands. When they 
ion, ae arrived, the chief relates in a low voice to the elders a circum- 
ſts lantial account of every particular of the expedition. The orator 
ans proclaims aloud this account to the people, and as he mentions the 
ne · lames of thoſe who have fallen, the ſhrieks of the women are re- 
ter. i budled The men too join in theſe cries, according as each is 


in- molt connected with the deceaſed, by blood or friendſhip. The laſt 
nce, ceremony is the proclamation of the victory; each individual then 


s of forgets his private misfortunes, and joins in the triumph of his nation; 
but al tears are wiped from their eyes, and by an unnaccountable tran- 
hey lion, they paſs in a moment from the bitterneſs of ſorrow, to an | 
ed, NMravagance of joy. But the treatment of the priſoners, whoſe fate all * 
Eu- "15 time remains undecided, is what chiefly characteriſes the ſavages, 
— The perſon who has taken the captive, attends him to the cottage, 


leſs lere according to the diſtribution made by the elders, he is deli - 
* * to ſupply the loſs of a citizen. If thoſe who receive him have 
the their family weakened by war or other accidents, they adopt the 
* captive into the family, of which he becomes a member. But if they 

Ure no occaſion for him, or the reſentment for the loſs of their 9 


Pe” td. 8 9 n 4s 
FIG 
* 


1 "=" ns Ms n 
hn * " SS LE 6 9 


be too high to endure the ſight of any connected with thoſe who 
were concerned in it, they ſentence him to death. All thoſe who 
have met with the ſame ſevere ſentence being collected, the whole na 
. tion is afſembled at the execution, as for ſome great ſolemnity. 4 ; 
ſcaffold is erected, and the priſoners are tied to the ſtake, where they 
commence their death ſong, and prepare for the enſuing ſcene of M 
cruelty with the moſt undaunted courage. The enemies, on the other 
ſide, are determined to put it to the proof, by the moſt refined and 
exquiſite tortures. They begin at the extremity! of his body, ard 
gradually approach the more vital parts. One plucks out his nails by 
the roots, one by one; another takes a finger into his mouth, and 
tears off the fleſh with his teeth ;- a third thruſts the finger, mangled 
as it is, into the bowl of a pipe made red hot, which he ſmokes like! 
tobacco; then they pound his toes and fingers to pieces between two 
ſtones; they pull off the fleſh from the teeth, and cut circles about 
his joints, and gaſhes in the fleſhy parts of his limbs, which they 
ſear immediately with red hot irons, cutting, burning, and pinching W 
them alternately ; they pull off his fleſh mangled and roaſted, bit by 

bit, devouring it with greedineſs, and ſmearing their faces with the 
blood in an enthaſiaſm of horror and fury. hen they have thus 
torn off the fleſh, they twiſt the bare nerves and tendons a- 
bout an iron, tearing and ſnapping them, whillt others are employ-f 
ed in pulling and extending the limbs in every way that can increaſe 
the torment. - This continues often five or. fix hours, and ſometimes 
ſuch is the ſtrength of the ſavages, days together. Then they ſre- 
_ quently unbind him, to give a breathing to their fury, to think what 
new torments they ſhall inflit, and to refreſh the ſtrength of the ſut- 
ferer, who, wearied out with ſuch a variety of unheard of totments, 
, often falls into fo profound a fleep, that they are obliged to apply 
the fire to awake him and renew his ſufferings. He is again faſten- 
ed to the ſake, and again they renew their crvelty ; they ſtick him 
all over with ſmall matches of wood, that eaſily takes fire, but burns 
flowly ; they continually run ſharp reeds into every part of his body; 
they m_ out his teeth with pincers, and thruſt out his eyes; and 
laſtly, after having burned his fleſh from the bones with flow fires; 
after having ſo mangled the body that it is all but one wound; alter Wl rg 
having mutilated his face in ſuch a manner as to carry nothing hu. ee. 
man in it; aſter having peeled the {kin from the head, and potred i tii 
a heap of red hot coals, or boiling water, on the naked {kull, they in 
once more unbind the wretch, who, blind, and ſtaggering with Pain bre 
and weakneſs, aſſaulted and pelted upon every fide with clubs and «f 


* 0 
: 


— — * —_ - — 


r e — DJA£DHH ow a 


ſtones, now up, now down, falling into their fires at every ſtep, runs . the 
ther and thither, until one of the chiefs, whether out of compaſſior inte 
or weary of cruelty, puts an end to his life with a club or a dagg Bl ger 
The body is then put into a kettle, and this barbarous employmevel vi; 
is ſucceeded by a tealt as barbarous. | ö 2nd 
The women, forgetting the human as well as the female nature, fery 
and transformed into ſomething worſe than. furies, act their parte are 
and even outdo the men in this ſcene of horror, while the prep" the! 
perſons of the country fit round the ſtake ſmoaking and looking ve 
without the leaſt emotion, What is molt extraordinary, the ſuiterer * 


bimſelf, in che little intervals of his torments, ſmokes too, appcats 
| : ; UNCOnCernc 


* 7 p „ * 2 A * — 9 b A a * Al K . 4 . 

P - "4 _ * _— 7 » „* TIF” IE a a — 0 wu - y * 4 0 

7 * 2 WER 0 —_ 2 * v * A the of wi * 

6 — Sa * 
- * * . 


uw 


* 6 a * 2 
7 8 o wu : 
 ©4 "WOE RATE K 
meoncerned, and converſes with his torturers about indifferent mat- 
ters, Igdeed during the whole'time of his execution, there ſeems a 


-onteſt between him and them which ſhall exceed, they in inflicting 
he molt horrid pains, or he in enduring them, with a firmneſs an 


on on —— — . * * # oo 
CT 
a 


conſtancy almoſt above human: not a groan, not a ſigh, not a dif- | 


ortion of countenance eſcapes him; he poſſeſſes his mind entirely in 
the midſt of his torments; he recounts his own exploits ; he informs 
them what cruelties he has inflicted upon their countrymen, and 
threatens them with the revenge that will attend his death; and 
though his reproaches exaſperate them to a perfect madneſs and fu. 
rr, he continues his inſults even of their ignorance df the art of 
tormenting, pointing out himſelf more exquiſite methods, and more 
nlible parts of the body to be afflicted. The women have this part of 
courage as well as the men ; and it.is as rare for an Indian to behave 
atherwiſe, as it would be for any European to ſuffer as an Indian. 
When any one of the ſociety dies, he is lamented by the whole; 
and on this occaſion a thouſand ceremonies are practiſed, denoting 
the moſt lively ſorrow. Of theſe, the moſt remarkable, as it diſco- 
ers both the height and continuance of their grief, is what they eall 
the fealt of the dead, or the feaſt of ſouls. The day of this ceremo - 
y is appointed by public order, and nothing is omitted that it 
may be celebrated with the utmoſt pomp and magnificence, The neigh- 


bouring tribes are invited to be preſent, and to join in the ſolemnity. 


At this time all who have died fince the laſt ſolemn oecaſion, (which 
is renewed every ten years among ſome tribes, and every eight among 
others) are taken out of their graves; thoſe who have been inter- 
red at the greateſt diſtance from the villages are diligently ſought for 
and broug ht to this great rendezvous of carcaſſes. . 

They bring the bodies into their cottages, where they prepare # 
ſeaſt in honour of the dead, during which their great actions are ce- 
lebrated, and all the tender intercourſes which took place between 
them and their friends are piouſly called to mind. The ſtrangers, 
who have come ſometimes many hundred miles to be preſent on the 
occaſion, join in the tender eondolance; and the women, by fright- 
ful ſhrieks, demonſtrate that they are pierced with the ſharpeſt ſor- 


row, then they are carried from the cabbins for the general re · in- 


ferment. A great pit is dug in the ground, and thither, at a cer- 
tain time, each perſon attended by his family and friends, marches 
in ſolemn filence, bearing the dead body of a ſon, a father, or a 
brother. When they are all convened, the dead bodies, or the duſt 
of thoſe which were quite corrupted, are depoſited in the pit: then 
tteir grief breaks out anew. Whatever they poſſeſs moſt valuable is 
erred with they dead. The ſtrangers are not wanting in their 
generolity, and confer thoſe preſents which they have brought along 
wich them for the purpoſe. Then all preſent go down into the pit, 
2nd every one takes a little of the earth, which they afterwards pre- 
krve with the moſt religious care. . The bodies, ranged in. order, 
re covered with entire new furs, and over theſe with bark, on which 
the throw ſtones, wood, and earth. Then taking their laſt fare- 

Fell, they return each to his own cabbin. 
Areſkoui, or the zod of battle, is revered as the great god of the 
Uans. Him they invoke before they go into the field, and ac- 
« cording 


- 
— 


A 4 7 


. 
4 4x; - _ 
. 
4 


* þ 


Ma 


3 * 7 * = v - 4 
- a Mice | 
- — IA” 2 - . 2 IE. 1 — 1 —— — - 
- 


FO * Fe a * 3 * , F 8 * a >; ks FT , * * "Re "Of _ 7 T "F . 
a ' * en 1 
. - 6 by © : ” 
| H 1 . 6% * 1 
Þ cording as his diſpoſition is more or left füvourable ts 


| traditions which reſemble the Grecian fables, but which are till 


commonly in their dreams, with the knowledge of future events; 
they are called in to the aſſiſtance of the fick, and are ſuppoſed to 


'/ ſweat. Then they hurry him from the bagnio, and plunge him ſud- 


conclude they will be more or leſs ſueceſsful, Some nations'% orſh; 
the ſun and moon ; among others there ar&a number of Airs, 
relative to the creation of the world, and the hiſtory of the 8 


more abſurd and inconſiſtent. But except when they hay f 
mediate occaſion for the aſſiſtance of their gods, rg 8 
ſort of worſhip. Like all rude nations, however, they are ſtronęl 
addicted to ſuperſtition. They believe in the exiſtence of a Rs 
of good and bad genii or ſpirits, ' who interfere in the affairs of mor. 
tals, and produce all our happineſs or miſery. It is from the evil 
genii, in particular, that our diſeaſes proceed; and it is to the good 
genii we are indebted for a cure. The miniſters of the nii are the 
ugglers, who are allo the only phyſicians among the ſavages, 
Theſe jugglers'are ſuppoſed to be inſpired by.the good genii, molt 


. ET 


be informed by the genii whether they will get over the diſeaſe, and 
in what way they muſt be treated, But theſe ſpirits are extremely 
ſimple in their ſyſtem of phyſic, and, in almoſt every diſeaſe, direct 
the juggler to the ſame remedy. The patient is incloſed in a narrow 
cabbin, in the midſt of which is a ſtone red hot; on this they throw 
water, untill he is well ſoaked with the warm vapour and his own] 


5 2 5©5Wwh}tt =o wa mts 


denly into the next river. This coarſe method, which colts many 
their lives, often performs very extraodinary cures. The jugglers 
have likewiſe the uſe of ſome ſpecifics' of wonderful efficacy ; and 
all the ſavages are dexterous in curing wounds by the application of 
Herbs. But the power of theſe remedies is always attributed to the 


magical ceremonies with which they are adminiſtered, * 


2 — ͥ ͤZ— —-¾:Zł1 ——g[— —— —  H— 
Fun 
; : | Wil 
Hiſtory of the Britiſh Settlements in America, 


3 in 

of rm firſt diſcovery made by any of our countrymen, was that al hoy 

ready mentioned, by Sebaſtian Cabot, a native of Briſtol ; who Wars 

in 1498 diſcovered that part of North America now known by the Ann 

name of Hudſon's Bay, and the ſtraits of Davis, from Capt. Hud- 
ſon and Davis, who failed afterwards to theſe places. N 

Between the years 1607 and 161:, Mr Hudſon made four vou. the 

ges to this part of the world; in the laſt of which, his men forced f Ly 

him and eight more of their officers into a boat, and left them t0 force 

ſtarve in the bottom of the bay. 


Sir Thomas Button purſued the diſcovery. in 1612, and Cap. WW fon: 
James, in 1631, in hopes of finding a North-Welt paſſage to Clin. * 


Capt. Gilham failed to the bottom of the bay in 1667, and, at l 


return, his owners procured a patent for planting this country» * 


1670. The firſt Engliſh Governor that went thither Was Batley 


3 ** . ui 


= * * * * 9 . — 

« * : 4 Fo © hp K * * 5 

x Z : „ * * * 1 
. 


aſter ſettled another factory at Neifon. In the year 1684, 


and ſoon 


the chief Engliſh factory was at Albany, and a fort erocted for its 
The French invaded our ſettlements, and took fort Rupert and | 


Albany in July 1686, though we were then at peace witk France. 
in King William's war, anno 1693, the Engliſh recovered their ſet- 
tements again. | | 


During the war in Queen Anne's reign, the French reduced all 
our ſettlements except Albany, but were obliged to reſtore them at 


the peace of Utrecht, anno 1713 and the company have remained 
in poſſeſſion of them ever ſince; and by the treaty they were to re- 
fore to great Britain, the bay and ſtreighis of Hudſon, with all the 
lands, ſeas, ſea-coalts, rivers, and. places, ſituated on the fame bay 


nd Kreights, (which comprehend all New Britain and Britiſh Ca- 
146a) and it was ageeed, that commiſſioners, on the part of Great 


fritain and France, ſhould terminate, within the ſpace of a year, 
the limits between the dominions of Grear Britain and France on 
that fide ; which limits the ſubjects of Great Britain and France 
vere not to paſs over to each other by ſea or land. ry 


It is not with certainty known what Europeans firſt viſited the | 
country of Canada, the diſcovery being claimed by both Spaniards 


ud French. However, no permanent ſettlement was made here 
till about the beginning of the 19th century; when the French ha- 
ing built ſome forts, and being frequently ſupplied with emigrants, 
they became able to ſupport themſelves and extend their views. As 
their ſettlements were-the firſt to the Northward of what was then 


called New England, they gradually fpread themſelves round the 
bay of St Lawrence, and along both ſides of the river, uſurped the 


country called Nova Scotia, built a town, called Port Royal, in the 
bay of Fundy, and, from thence, about the year 1680, ſupported 


A M E R 1 c 4. | 68g _ 
Batley, Eſq. who built a fort on Rupert river, calling it Charles · Fort, © 


— 


the Indians of New England, in their wars with the Engliſh ; for 


which they were, in 1690, ſtripped of their poſſeſſions in the bay of 


Fundy by the people of New England, under the command of Sir 
William Phipps, their governor z who alſo twice attempted the re« 
ducton of Quebec, but failed by being too late in the ſeaſon. How- 
erer, during the wars of king William, the French and Indians 

ned many advantages over the Engliſh, having recovered Port 

al and the other countries they had formerly uſurped. In the 
wars of Queen Anne, Port Royal was again retaken, and called 
Annapolis; and an expedition was ſet on foot againſt Quebec. The 
let from Old England was under admiral Walker, with a body 
of troops under general Hill, who were to approach the place by 


the river of St Lawrence, while general Nicholſon, with the New 


England forces, were to attack Montreal, and ſo divide the French 

— This expedition alſo failed ; and, the peace of Utrecht fol- 

owing foon after, the French relinquiſhed Nova Scotia, the bay of 

Fundy, and cther places. 

4 they applied themſelves to extend their ſettlements about 

» lakes, and meet thoſe making about the Miſhfippi; and alſo 
it and fortified the town of Louiſburg on the iſland of Cape Bre- 


"Wn, which gave them the command of the gulph of St SO 
* | ; an 


a, a , * py 4 
* 1 * * F 
- 4 . 


H IS Tio WIE NN 


4 by the New England men, and reſtored to the 3 

in 1448. It was finally taken in 19584 and, in che followi 

2 Engliſh army, under general olte, having beat the 
ider a, in the neighbourhood of 'Quebee, Where both 

neruls fell, that town, and all its de 

and, by the treaty of 1763, was confirmed to them, aud the 

government thereby annihilated in North Ameri ea. 


REVOLUTIONS axy MEMORABLE EVENTS, : 


HEN the Europeans firlt viſited New England, they faund i 
YY inhabited by twenty different nations or tribes independent of 
each other, and — 2 by their reſpective chiefs. Of these 
nations, the moſt powerful was the Maſſachuſets, fituated on or nent 
Boſton harbour. King James I, by letters patent dated the 1oth of 
April, 1606, ereQed two companies, impowering them to fend 
colonies to Virginia, as all the North-Eaßt coalt of America was 
then called. i e 8 
About the year 1619, ſome diſſenters, of the independent perſps - 
ſion, who were uneaſy at their being required to conform to the 
church of England, having purchaſed the Plymouth patent, and 
obtained another from king James to lead. colonies. to North Virg- 
nia, now New England, embarked 150 men on board a ſhip, which he 
failed from Plymouth the 6th of September 1620, and arrived at | 
Cape-Cod- in New England on the gth of November. following, 
where they built a town, and called it by the name of New Ff. * 
mouth; and Mr John Carver was elected their fr governor. 
The Indians were, at this time, too much engaged in wars among 


+ | 


themſelves, to give theſe rangers any diſturbance ; and Mallaſtoit, T 
prince of the Maſachuſer nation, learned from one Quante, an lo- the 
ian who had been carried to England, what à powerful people the 4. 
ngliſh were, made governor Carver a viſit the following prin r 
and entered into an alliance, offenſive and defenſive, with the Lag: - - 
liſh, by whoſe aſſiſtance he hoped to make a conquelt of the Nara ud! 
genſet nation, with which he was then at war, . This prizes alt * 
confetited to acknowledge the king of England his ſovereign, and +a 
made a ceſlion of part of his country to the hew planters.  Serers ana, 
other Sachems, or Princes, alſo followed che..example of Maſſallo By - -* 
and deſired the protection of the Engliſh agaialt their enemies, e © 
ſeſſing themſelves ſubje ds of king James. | 342 ſeflion 
Ships arriving every day almoſt with planters and.pr oviſions, the the ki 
colony ſoon became well eſtabliſhed ; when differences arale anon nl y 
the planters, upon acceunt of religion. The independent, FF 10. 
were the molt numerous, nat allowing a tolleration d any other being 
fe or perſuaſion, ſeveral of the adventurers removed to veher pron k. b 
of the country, and others returned home, whereby the eajony me Dutch 
fo weakened, that, if the Indians had not been engage W# ＋ 
war, the Engliſh would infallibly have been driven out ol the 2 bour; 
In the mean time, another ſet of adventurers, anne 4627, Þ* buring 


fed a grant, of the Plymouth company, of all that part of Nev "if 


hn 


A MER 3.0: Ai | 691 
nad, which lyes between the river Merimae and Charles river ; and, 
to lirengthen their title to this country, procured a. grant of it from 
Ling Charles, anno 1688, and nominated Mr Cradock their firſt 


or. 0 þ 
— ſet of adyenturers planted New Hampſhire, and others 
Providence and Rhode · Iſland, the laſt being chiefly quakers, driven 
out of Maſſachuſet colony by the independents, who had long per- 
ccuted them, and actually hanged ſome of the quakers for not con- 
forming to their ſect. 1 0 1 

Thus all the New England provinces were planted and well - peo · 

within the ſpace of twenty years, reckoning from the arrival 
of the firſt colony at New Plymouth, during which time they were 
rery little interrupted by the Indians; but the Engliſh colony of 
Connetient beginning to erect fortreſſes, and extend their ſettlements 
to the Weſtward, without the leave of the natives, the Indians were 
alarmed, apprehending they ſhould in time be diſpoſſeſſed of their 
country, and be inſlaved by theſe foreigners» cfg ? 

The Sachem Metacoment therefore (to whom the Engliſh gave 
the name of Philip) the fon of Maſſaſſoit, who firſt entered into an 
alliance with the Engliſh, obſerving the danger hig country was ing 
and that the Engliſh now no longer acted as allies, but tyrannized 
over his people, and had in a manner deprived him of his authori - 
ty, diſpatched meſſengers privately through all the tribes of the In» 
dians, inviting them to take up arms in defence of their country, 
which they did, and ſucceeded in ſeyeral engagements at firſt, but 
their Prince Philip being killed by a muſket-{hot, the Engliſh at 
length prevailed. Great numbers of the Indians were malſlacred, 
ind others were driven ont of their country, and joined the French 
in Canada, who promiſed them protection, and frequently aſſiſted 
them in their invaſion of the Britiſh ſettlements. _ 

The province of New York, which was ſold to the Dutch, about 
the year 1608, by a private contract with captain Hudion, its diſ- 
coverer, was, by the Dutch, called Nova Belgia, They cleared 
ſome parts, built ſome towns about the mouths of the rivers, and 
formed ſome ſettlements within land; and, abgut the yeat 1637. 
tad ſpread themſelves to the Northward of what is now called Jer · 


ſey, and incroached on the lands which had been ſettled for ſore 


jears by a colony of Swedes, who hat built the towns of Chriſti» 
an, Elſingburg, and Gottenburg. But as this coalt had been firlt 
diſcovered by Cabot, for king Henry VII. it was reclaimed by king 
Charles II.; who, in the year 1664, ſent a force which-togk poſ- 
ſeſſion of it for the duke of York, to whom it had been granted by 
the king, his brother ; and therefore the country was called New - 
Tork, The part poſſeſſed by the Swedes was granted by the duke 
of York to Lord Berkley and Sir George Carterit, whoſe families 
being of the iſle of Jerſey, they called it New Jerſey ; one having the 
Lalt part, and the other the Weſt part. Such of the Swedes and 
ch as choſe to ſtay, and become ſubjects to England, and ten- 
ws to the proprietors, were permitted to enjoy the fruits of their la» 
1 and the Dutch who departed had the liberty of retiring to 
"nam, which country the Engliſh had ceded to the Dutch. by 
Way of exchange. On the duke of York's acceſſion to the throne, 
48 2 New 


F592 HIT 
Vork fell to the crown; and became a royal governiſhdhq, 

in 1702 the proprietors of the Jerſeys ſurrendering the We 
the queen, it became alſo a royal government. ; 
The dukeof York afterwards parcelled out theſe countries to 
proprietors, among whom William Penn, ſon of Sir William Penn, 

admiral in the Dutch wars, was one. | IE 
All the reſt of the under-proprietors, ſome time after, ſurrender. 
ed their charters to the crown, whereby NewYork and the Jerſeys 
became royal governments; but Penn retained that part of the 
country which had been granted to him. And king Charles II. 
made him another grant, in 1680, of the reſt of that country, which 
now conſtitutes the reſt of Penſylvania, in-confideration of a debt 
due to his father, the admiral, from the government. Penn, the 
ſon, afterwards united the countries he poſſeſſed by both grants, in- 
to one, giving them the name of Penſylvania, and began to plant 
them in the year 1681. The Dutch and Swediſh inhabitants chu. 
fing ſtill. to reſide in this country, as they did in New York and the 


Jerſeys, they and their deſcendents enjoy the ſame privileges as the N 
reſt of his majeſty's ſubjects in theſe plantations do, and are no in 1 
a manner the ſame people with the Engliſh, ſpeaking their language, t 
and governed by their laws and cuſtoms, ; 
Mr Penn, however, notwithſtanding the grants made him by the a 
crown and the duke of York, did fat eſteem himſelf the real pro- R 
prietor of the lands granted him, until he had given the Indians a th 
valuable conſideration (or what they eſteemed ſuch) for their coun- WY ti 
try: he therefore aſſembled their Sachems or Princes, and purcha- ec 
ſed countries of a very large extent of them, for a very moderate ar 
ice, as they made ſcarce any other uſe of their country than hunt te 
in it. He paid them for it in clothes, tools, and utenſils, to the th 
entire ſatisfaction of the natives, who ſtill retained more lands " 
they could poſſibly uſe, being very few in number, of 
Maryland was diſcovered in the year 1606, when Virginia was lat 
firſt planted, and, for ſome time, was eſteemed a part of Virginia, or 
until Charles I. in the year 1632, granted all that part of Virginia pa 
which lay North gf Patowmac river, and was not then planted, to 
the right honourable Cecilius Calvert, Lord Baltimore of the kings eo 
dom of Ireland, and to his heirs; which was afterwards named co 
Maryland, in honour of the then queen conſort Henrietta Mari, an 
youngeſt daughter of the French king Henry IV. The lord Bat. of 
more ſent over his brother, the hon. Leonard Calvert, Eſq; with of 
ſeveral Roman Catholic gentlemen, . and other adventurers, to the fits 
number of 200, who arrived in the bay of Cheſepeak in the year fon 
1633, and planted the firſt colony near the mouth of Patowmacn the 


ver, and advancing to the Indian town of Yoamaco,'they were et 
mitted to reſide in one part of the town, in confideration of fx bet 
83 they made to the Weroance, or prince of the country, ny 2:: 
eft them in poſſeſſion of the whole town as ſoon as this people had and 
got in their harveſt ; whereupon Mr Calvert gave the town the nam ſkir 
of St Mary's: but what principally induced the Weroance to be the 
exceedingly civil to the Engliſh was his being at war with the 5 to | 
quehannah Indians, and expecting to be protected by the En 
againſt that potent enemy, who had very near driven * 


— 


* 
*. * 


i eres, And ſoch was the good-underfianding between the 


Yoamaco Indians and this colony, that, while the Engliſh were 
ing the country, the Indians hunted for them in the woods, 
er and brought them in great quantities of veniſon and wild fowl; - 
an, and many Roman Catholic families coming over from England to 
zyoid the penal laws, this ſoon became a flouriſhing colony, of which 
er. the Calverts remained governors until the civil wars in England, 
ys when the family were deprived of the government of this province, 
the but recovered it again on the reſtoration of King Charles II. And 
IL the hon, Charles Calvert, ſon of the lord Baltimore, remained go- 
ich rernor of that Colony near twenty years, who promoted the plant- 
lebt ing of tabacco here, till the colony became almoſt as conſiderable for 
the that branch of buſineſs as Virginia g and the family ſtill remain pro- 
in- prietors of this plantation, being one of the moſt conſiderable eſtates 
ant enjoyed by any ſubje& of Great Britain abroad. | | | 
hu. The North-Eaſt part of the continent of America was firſt diſco- 


the vered by Sebaſtian Cabot, a native of Briſtol, In the year 1497, he 


the diſcovered all the coaſt, from cape Florida, in 25 degrees of North 


F IN latitude, to 67 and an half; from whence England claimed-a right 
age, to Virginia, prior to the Spaniards, or any other European power. 

Queen Elizabeth having equipped ſeveral ſquadrons, under the 
the command of thoſe celebrated commanders Drake, Hawkins, and 
pro- Raleigh, to cruize upon the Spaniſh coaſts and iſlands in America, 
DS 4 they brought home ſuch favourable accounts of the riches and fer- 
ule tility of Florida, that a t many enterprizing gentlemen appear- 
cha- ed very zealous of ing ſettlements in that part of the world, 


: 5 : : . yy © | . 
RK NM I RI .. 


- 


rate and choſe Mr Raleigh, atterwards Sir Walter, to conduct the en- 


hunt terpriſe, who obtained a patent or grant from queen Elizabeth, in 
the the year 1584, of all ſuch lands as he ſhould diſcover in North-A- 
than merica, between 33 and 40 degrees of North latitude, and to diſpoſe 
of them in fee-ſimple, or otherwiſe, to any of the ſubjects of Eng- 
vn land, reſerving to the crown a fifth part of all the gold and ſilver 
inis, ore that ſhould be acquired in ſuch countries, paying the ſaid fifth 
inn, part to the crown in lieu of all ſervices. ; 
| to Wherenpon Mr Raleigh formed a ſociety among his friends, who 
ung eontributed large ſums, and provided two ſhips to go upon the diſ- 
covery, the command having been given to capt. Philip Amidas 
and capt. Arthur Burlow, who ſet fail from England on the 2oth 
of April 1584, and arrived at the iſland of Wokoken, on the coaſt 
ot Carolina, in 34 degrees odd minutes, North latitude. They vi- 
hted another iſland a little to the Northward, called Roanoak; and 
lome of the officers went over to the neighbouring continent, where 
they were hoſpitably entertained' by Wingina, the king of that part 


before night, where they bartered ſome utenſils of braſs and pewter, 
ares, hatchets, and knives, with the natives, for ſkins and furrs ; 
and, having diſpoſed of all their goods, and loaded their ſhips with 
eins, ſaſſafras, and cedar, and procured ſome pearls and tobacco, 
they parted with the natives in a very friendly manner, returning 


to England with two Indians, who deſired to come along with them. 


ESREEE BEES RS 


"ik 


. 


= 


| 


| 


of the country ; however, they returned to the iſland of Wokoken 


he tobacco brought home by theſe adventurers, being the firſt that 


694 HES TOC N 

was ever ſeen in England, was then eried up as d m valuable 
plant, and a remedy for almoſt every diſeaſe. on * | 

Theſe two ſhips having made a profitable voyage, and given ont 
the country was immenſely rich, Mr; Raleigh and his friends 
ed out a fleet of ſeven ſhips more, giving the command of it to 
Sir Rich. Greenville, Who ſet ſail from Plymouth the Rh of April, 
1585, and arrived at the iſland of Wokoken the,a6th-of June fol. 
lowing, where the admiral's ſhip was caſt away going into the har. 
bour; but he and all the crew. were ſaved. The Admiral after. 
wards conducted the adventurers to the iſland of Roanoak, from 
' whenee he went over to the continent, and took a view of the coun. 
try : and one of the natives ſtealing a ſilver cup, he took a fevers 
revenge, burnt and plundered an Indian town, with all che corn 
wing in their fields, and, leaving 108 men on ths iſland of Roa. 
noak, under the command of Mr Ralph Lane, directed him to male 
further diſcoveries, and then ſet ſail for England, promiſing to re- 
turn with. ſuch reinforcements as ſhould enable him to ſubdue the 
neighbouring continent: but Mr Lane marching to the Weſt, found 
the country deſtroyed before him as he advanced ; and it was with 
great difficulty that he made his retreat to Roanoak again. Aud 
the colony were in great danger of ſtarving. if Admiral Drake Inc 


= SS =» =» rw = a © 


KS 6 3. 2288 


had not taken them up as he was returning from a cruize, and ten 
brought them to England. „F. n a | 15 
8 Sie Walter ſent over ſeveral other little embarkations ; but, ze - 5 
4 glecing to ſupport them, all of them perilhed. . con 
No farther attempts were made to fix colonies either in Carolina duc 

or Virginia, until the reign of James I. who, by his Jatters patent, tion 
dated the ioth of April 1606, authorized Sir Thomas Gates, vir ten! 
George Summers, Richard Hacklyit, Clerk, Prebendary of Welt- of 1 
minſter, and other adventurers, to plant the coaſt of Virginia, be- hon 
tween 34 and 45. degrees of North latitude ; who thereupon fitted thir 
out three ſmall ſhips, giving the command of them to captain Chri of 1 
ſtopher Newport, who- ſet ſail from the Downs the 5th of January, Opt 
1606-7, and, en the 26th of April, 1607, arrived in the bay of 15 r 
Cheſepeak; and failing up the river Powhaten, now James river, whe 
they landed on a peninſula about fifty miles up the river, where they of « 
built a fort, and afterwards a town, which they called James-tomn, 8 
in honour of King James I. from whom they received their patent. tiny 
This was the firſt town built by the Englith on the continent of A- land 
merica. BSI... The 
There happened ſome ſkirmiſhes between the Englifh and the ns. tion 
tives at their landing; but the Indians, apprehending they ſhould pave 
not be able to maintain their ground againſt a people furniſhed with who 
fire-arms, pretended to be reconciled, waiting however for an op. non. 
portunity of falling upon theſe ſtrangers, when they ſnould meet of 
with an advantage. The fort being finiſhed, Capt. Newport, e plan 
the 22d of June, 1607, returued to England, leaving 10400 N 
the new ſettlement. ; | r fe 
The garriſon, ſoon finding themſelves in want of provihemy nh Pp 
the natives refuſing to furniſh them with any, though they 1 Oleg 
to give the full value for them, the Engliſh found themſelves 2 = 
2 neceſſity of plundering the country; upon which an pen 1 


commeuc 


PESO RE TE ESE TY KFL SST 


5 5» 5 T Bi T 


. 


* 


and reinforcements eoming over, commanded by lord Delawar, the 
lodians were glad to enter into a treaty of peace, during whieh the 
Eagliſh, finding a great demand for tobaceo in Europe, began to 
encourage the planting of it, in which they ſucceeded beyond thei 


tions ; and at the ſame time Sir George Yardley, the gover- 
nor, eſtabliſhed a government reſembling*that of England, and the 
frſt general a or parliament met at James-town," in May, 


1610; and negroes were firſt imported into Virginia the fame year. 
The Indians, in the mean time, looking upon themſelves a3 2 
conquered people, entered into a conſpiraey to maſſacre all the Eng- 
in, on the 22d of March, 1622, about noon, when the Engh 
were abroad at work on their plantations; without arms; and they 
ztuaily murdered 347 of the Englith, moſt of them being killed 
their own working-tools : but an Indian, who had been well x 
by his maſter, diſcloſing the 2 to him a little before this execu - 
ton, he gave notice to the reſt of the planters, who ſtood upon their 
defence, and not only ſaved their own lives,” but cut off great num- 


bers of the Indians. | 
The planters, not long after, out among themſelves, the 
and made another at- 


Indians took an advantage of their 
tempt to recover their countyy,. killing great numbers of the Eng- 
iin by ſurpriſe. BY nat? 
Theſe misfortunes being aſeribed to the mal · adminiſtration of the 
company, King Charles I. diffolved them in the year 1626, and re- 
duced the government of Virginia under his own immediate 'direc- 
ton, appointing the government and council bimfelf, ordering all pa- 
tents and proceſſes to iſſue in the king's name, reſerving a quit-rent 
of two-ſhillings for every hundred acres of land. The planters, . 
however, falling into factions and parties again, the Indians made a 
third effort to recover their loſt liberties, and cut of near 500 more 
of the Engliſh ; but they were at length repulſed, and their king 
Oppaconcanough taken priſoner, and killed by à private ſoldier, ve- 
moch againſt the will of Bir Wilkam Berkley, the then governor, 
Fho deſigned to have bronght bim over into England, being a man 
of extraordinary ſtature, aud Uncommon parts. "Fs 
dir William afrerwards made peace with the Indians, which con- 
unned a conſiderable time; but, the civil war commencing in Eng- 
and, he was removed from his government during the uſurpation, 
when au ordinance of parliament was made, prohibiting the planta- 
bons to receive or export any goods but in Engliſh thips ; which 
dare birth to the act of navigation in the reign of king Charles II, 
— re-inſtated Sir William Berkley in his government at the reſtora- 
ion. | 0 
Sir William promoted the manufactures of filk and linen in this 
plantation, and was eſteemed an excellent governor ; but the act of 
ner ation reſtrainiflg the planters from ſending their merchandize 
to foreign countries, and from receiving eloathing, furniture, or 
applies from any nation but England, creating a great deal of 
Ulontent, Mr Bacon, a popular factious gentleman, took the ad- 
\ tage of their diſaffeckion, and., ſetting up for himſelf, drew 
the people into rebellion, depoſed the governor, and compelled him 


the grantces being Edward earl of Clarendon, lord Chancelbe, 
George duke of marie, the general; William lord Cravea, 
John lord Berkely, the lord Anthony Ashley Cooper, Sir George 
Carteret, Sir William Colleton, and their heirs, Theſe proprietors, 
however, did little towards planting: it, until the year 1670, when 
lord Aſhley ſtruck out a whimſical kind of government for the colo- 
ny, creating a Palatine or Sovereign, with-'a council to be a check 
upon him; which involved them in perpetual quarrels, and amal 
deſtroyed the plantation as ſoon as it was ſettled z to prevent which, 
they were at length obliged to ſell their ſhares to the crown ; and it 
is now a royal government, only ear{ Granville thought fit to retain 
his ſeventh ſhare, which his family ill remains in poſſeſſion of, 
The Carolinas being frequently invaded. and harraſſed by the 
French and Spaniſh Indians, the Engliſh found it neceſſary to er- 
tend their plantations farther South, and added that province deno- 
minated Georgia, contiguous to the Carolinas; and truſtees were 
appointed to fortify that frontier againſt the incurſions of the Indi- 
ans, who accordingly built towns, and erected forts on or near the 
banks of the rivers Savannah and Alatamaha, in order to.cover 
theſe provinces againſt any hoſtile attempts on that ſide, for here 
only they were liable to be attacked. As to the reſt, the Apalachi 
— — cover the two Carolinas from any invaſion from the 
en. wallet a W N FLY ©. 
General Oglethorpe commanded the firſt embarkation for Georga, 
to whom the Creek nation voluntarily relinquiſhed their right to al 
the country South of the river Savannah, the Northern Jlimits o 
this new province of Georgia; and articles of commerce were fene 
between the Engliſh and Treks. There were ſome attempts ma 
the laſt war to add the Spaniſh port of St Auguſtine to the prova 
of Georgia; and had not general Oglethorpe been betrayed, K 
had probably reduced that fortreſs z but not being able to-conkd: f 
his own people, he found it neceſſary to retire from thence; and [a 
Spaniards not long after returned the viſit, and invaded Georg, 
which was ſo well defended by Mr Oglethorpe, that the Spanus 
were beaten off; however, till the laſt treaty of peace, they e 
inſiſted that the province of Georgia, or part of it, belonges 1018 
crown of Spain, | | 


The Spaniards poſſeſſed themſelves of Florida. immediately f 
their conqueſt of Mexico, under which name they comprebnns 


thoſe countries which lye North of the gulph of Mexico, 


RSESEFFRSSEFLESSEY ESD 


= 


8-33 4 


= #7 ? 
— 


A M RIA. - wp. 
paniards abandoning part of this country for richer ſettlements in 
rico and Peru, the Engliſh planted moſt of the Eaſtern coaſt, 
wo tiled Britiſh America, the Spaniards retaining only St Auguſtin, 
ind two or three other ſmall places Eaſt of the river Miſſiſippi, and 
hat lyes Weſt of that river; and thus the country fituated be- 
men the Engliſh plantations on the Eaſt, and the Spaniſh terri - 
aries in the Weſt, remained under the dominion of the Florida 
ladians, until the year 1218, when the French took poſſeſſion of 
he mouth of the river Miſſiſippi, and erected ſome forts, by virtue 
whereof they laid claim to the greateſt part of Florida, incroaching 
n the Spaniſh territories on the Weſt, and the Englith dominions on 
the Eaſt, They did, indeed, onee Before erect ſome forts on the Spaniſh 
doe of the river Miſſiſippi ; but the Spaniards demoliſhed them, and 
tore the French out of the country; but, fince Franee and Spain have 
teen ſo cloſely united, the Spaniards ſeem to wink at their incroach- 
nents; but the Engliſh, who have ever looked upon this country, as far 
Weltwart as the river Miſſiſippi, to belong to the colonies of the Caro- 
ina and Georgia, or at leaſt to their Indian allies the Creeks or Che- 
mtees, thought they had very good reaſon to diſpute this part of Flo- 
da with the French, theſe Indians having ceded to the Engliſh all this 
couatry which they do not chuſe themſelves; and it muſt be admitted 
that the natives only can give the Europeans a juſt title to it, | 


FR BESS CET EE EEE THR" 


the 
— 


” 
* 


A DESCRIPTION oy Taz Parent WAR. 


{ tt we have given an account of eachof the Britiſh colonies, from its 
diſcovery to the time when the preſent war began; or at leaſt, till the 
ſeeds of the diſſenſion were ſown, which gradually coming to maturity, at laſt 
produce] the rupture, which ſeems not likely to be terminated, but by the entire 
conqueſt of all the colonies, as of an enemy's country, Florida aloneexcepted. 


To form ſome idea of the original of this quarrel, we muſt confider the form 
df government eſtabliſhed in the Britiſh-provinces. This conſiſted of an upper 
ad lower houſe of repreſentatives. with a governor appointed by the crown 
greatly reſembling the parliament and lord lieutenant of Ireland. The bouſes 
of repreſentatives had the power of making laws relating to the internal ma- 
taxement of each province, and which became valid by the governor's appro- 
bation, juſt as the laws of Britain become valid by the royal aſſent. With re- 
pard to other matters, they reckoned themſelves ſubje& to the legiſlature of 
Great Britain ; and as long as the colonies were in thei? infant ſtate, there was 
either inclination nor occafion to quarrel ; the coloniſts were occafionally 
protected by the mother country, as they. ſtood in need of her protection; 
ind both they themſelves, and the inhabitants of Britain, reckoned them on 
ite very ſame footing with the natives of this country. 


But though the colonies were ſpared while in their infancy, it could 
do be expected that Great Britain was to defend them upon all occaſions, and 
— they were grown able to defend themſclyes. - At all times, however, 
de coloniſts ſhewed themſelves very unwilling to part with their money, even 
i tlicir own defence, and ſuch jealouſies and diſcords reigned between the 

| &X _ diffexent 


«SS EERRSSTEScEzgS FE3igar=3S8E 


S Sek 


Ll - 


"Y | * , PIT "ny 
. 
* * 1 * 


- 


* 


* 55 
% 
2 8 


REES 4.7 A Sade. A cet Of by TY r 
wo HISTORY 6r run WEAK 
| different provinces, that to appearance they would have been wad that aw 
» _— _ © neighbours had become g rs to their enemies. In the year 2734, howey 
+  » the incroachments of the French made it evident, either that the? | 
hoved to take ſome means for their defence, or tafall at once a prey tothet 
| triders. Accordingly, cotnmiſhoners from many of the colonies wet at a1 
bany in order to form a plan of union for their common defence; The ws 
they was, That a grand council ſhould be formed of mentbers 
be choſen by the aſſemblies, and ſent from all the different colonies; whic 
council, together with a gavernor-general; to be appointed by the crown 
ſhould be impowered to make general laws, and to raiſe money in all the co 
Jones for the defence of the whole. This plan was fent over te the geren 
ment of Britain, for its approbation, but was by the then miniſtry reſected 
and the following propoſed in its ſtead: That the governors of Ae ec 
nics, attended by one or two of their reſpecive councils, mud affewble 
and concert meaſures for the defence bf the whole; etect forts where the 
ſhould judge proper; raiſe what troops they ht neceſſary ; with pow 
to draw on the treaſury of Britain for the ſums they wanted ; and the des 
wy to be re-imburſed by a tax laid upon the colanies by a& of parliatven 
| This plan was at that time objeQed to, for the following reaſons: 1. Th 
” ' the pedple of the colonies, who were to feel the Immediate wine or 
*.  ._ -fh0n; were the beſt judges of the force necefſary to expert. „ Thatthe xe 
5 veruors, not being always men of the beſt characters, nor of thelargeſteize 
5 ann more troops in pay tt 
were necefſary, in order to make their fortunes ooner in Amerion, by th 
e 2 accruing to them from the money paſling thro their hands, &c. 3 Il 
e counſellors, in moſt colonies, were men of {mall eſtates, and tog muck 
under the influence of the governors. 4. That ſuch governors, and counſd- 
lors, might find it their intereſt to raiſe draughts on the treaſury ; and being 
once-impoſed, the continuance of them is eafily prolonged, and the tax f 
the re-payment of them never to be remitted. 5. That the par o 
Great Britain, being at a great diſtance, was ſubje& to mif-information by ſuck 
_ governors, &c. and the people, having no re tives, could have no meang 
of undeceiving the legiſlature. 6. That it is the ſuppoſed right of every z 
liſhman, to be taxed only by his own conſent, thro! the perſon of d NE. 
ſentative. 97. That the colonies, having no repreſentatives, ou yied 
conſent to their taxations. 8. That compelling the cotonies to pay move] 
without their conſent, would be rather like raifipg contributions in an eo: 
'my's country, than taxing Engliſhmen in their own defence. 9- That ifthe 
| | colonies in a body may be well governed by magiſtrates appointed by in 
(il crown, the provinces ingly may alſo be ſo governed, and their aſſemblies 
| miſſed as an uſeleſs part of the conſtitution. . | 


Theſe were the chief objections of the Americans at that times and u the 
commencement of the war with France rendered it impuſſibſe to puſh 2 
then, the miniſtry dropped the project, and ſuffered things to continue os 
fore. Upon the commencement of the peace, however, the diſpute #8quey 
reſumed, and it hath fince appeared, that neither the miniltry nor the Amencl 
have in the leaſt receded from the principles they maintained at that time. 


* —— 


. 0 reer 
« - — 4 — g p N 4 
= © - 9 * q * . 4 hs " 
1 

* , E = 
p „ T * 3 

” - 1 

D 7 - » * r 
” * — = 


SHREEDPSRESCSYSOPESSSC=spD ens 


I . 3. 8 WORYEDSPEPSAASSTPTPIEEStkhgogx0H 


Without entering into the queſtion which hath been ſo much A n 

by words, writings, and mobs. and then by force of arms, we may pins > 
to make the following obſervations on the above plans. 1. 1 theerncd ex 
plan carries an evident appearance of independene in it. For, — 510 wi 
counſel conſiſted of members elected by the majority of the * * 2 ric 
particular provinces, theſe members behoved to be very much anc of eſp 
ence of the aſſemblies; ſo that if the province did not chuſe to gie wt” me 
neceſſary (and indeed their general behaviour did not en ag fo 
council would never determine againſt their inclination, and — d an 
would ſtill be left in the lurch for as large ſums as the coloniſts chole eve 
Pay for their defence. 2. By the miniſterial plan, matters were entre ent 


and it is evident the colonies were juſt as much at the — 


an A MERT.C A... eee 
Britain, without their own conſent, as b tbe former ons they ve 
1 own diſpoſal, without the conſent of the or legiſlature. fre 
that the diſpute unavaidably turns upon what hath always been ip- 
ted upon by the Americans and their adherents, namely, the natural rights of 
"mankind, whether are men to be conſidered as born free, in the lame ſtate in 
which they were at firſt created, or are they to beconſidered as born under, 
ind aecefſarily ſubject to the ſame laws which governed their forefathers. In 
either caſe, however, the Americans were never at a lolgfor argument. If their 
opponents infiſted on * right of governors and magiſtrates, they replicd, that 
mankind were originally on an equality, and that governors were created by the 5 
ſudjects, and not ſubjects by their gayernors ; and of conſequence, that the 
governors have no right to exerciſe any authority, farther than the people gri- 
ginally give them liberty. If the friends of government urged, that every 
good member of ſociety ought to be ſulje& to the laws under which he wass 
born, the Americans appealed to their charters, If it was urged that the ' + + 
charters were granted them when in very different circumſtances, and con- 
ſequently that there was now a neceſſity for altering thoſe charters, they re- 
ed, that there might indeed be a neceſſity for this, but that it ought not to 
done without their own wo cam oy and thus, when the matter was left 


to diſpute, no end of it could ever be found. : . | 


But, though the affair of taxation was the only apparent cauſe of the A+ . 
merican diſcontent, the true reaſon ſeems to have been ſuch as is perhaps ir. * 
remediable by human wiſdom; viz, that the two countries; are natural ri- & i 
nals to one another. Both Great Britain and America produce in abundance 
il the neceſſaries and conveniencies of life. Certain ſuperfluities, however, 
are reckoned neceflary by all nations, and ſome of theſe ſuperſſuities are pro- 
duced in Britiſh America, For theſe the Britiſh would gladly exchange fuch 
zeceſſaries as the Americans wanted, and which the infant ſtate of their a 
manufactures could not allow them to prepare for themſelyves While tge 
coloniſts, therefore, were few in number, they would not think of manu- 
fRuring for themſelves, or of getting their neceſſaries-any where elſe than 
from Great Britain. But, as they have remarkably increaſed in number 
and, like other people, could not be ſatisfied with the produce of their own 
country, it ſo happened, that the Britiſh-exports to America always exceed- 
ed the imports from it 3 and hence the Americans were always indebted to 
this country. As therefore they could hope to draw no maney from Great 
Britain, they behaved to have it ſomewhere elſe ;z and for this reaſon took 
all opportunities of trading with their Southern neighbours the Spaniards, 
who gave them gold and filver for their commodities; and as this gold and 
flyer came through the hands of the Americans, into the hands of the Bri- 
tin mecchants, it is not to be ſuppoſed that they would find any fault with 
a trade of this kind. It being, however, diametrica oppoſite to the in- 
tereſts of the king of Spain, it became neceſſary to forbid it by an act of the 
Britiſh Parliament, and the Spaniards endeavoured to prevent this illicit trade 
as much as poſſible, by their guarda coſtas; but which were never able, 
with all their vigilance, to put a ſtop to it; ſo that between their fair trade 
with Britain and their ſmuggling with the Spaniards, they were enabled to 
Ive in the greateſt affluence. | / 


Soon after the concluſion of the late war with France, the famous ſtamp 
cd was paſſed, whereby it was declared unlawful to draw any bills or bonds 
except upon ſtamped paper, and all writings of that kind which were other-. 
wiſe drawn, were 22 by the act to be null and void: This the Ame- 
neans conſidered as a yery great grievance; prodigious tumults enſued, 
eſpecially at Boſton, where all along the inhabitants ſeem to have been of the 
molt turbulent ſpirit, and leaſt inclined to ſubjection. Reſolutions were 
formed againſt importing any thing from Britain, or indeed againſt doing 
ay bufineſs at all, and a congreſs of committees from all the provinces was 
even then propoſed, in order to confider of what was to be done. Thus 
erery thing ſeemed at that that time ready for the revolt which hah fince 

* 412 2 happened, 


©." 
Gp 


4 


. 


„„ HISTORY'or ris WAR 
- + happened, but the diſturbances were in ſome meaſure quelled by t repeal o 
that act in 1766. No ſooner was this ſo obnoxious act 2 yt 
ther was made in its ſtead, wherein it Was declared that all his majeſty's co- 
lonies in America have been and ought to be ſubſervient to, and d 
on the imperial crown and parliament of Great Britain; and that the +; 
| with conſent of parliament, has power to bind them in all caſes whatſoever: 
and that all reſolutions made againſt any of theſe acta of parliament were of 
- themſelves null and void. This act, which was direckiy contrary to the . 
merican principles of liberty, and what they | thought an infringement 
of their natural rights, could not fail of being very difagreeable;” To add 
to their, diſcontent, however, in 176% another ac was palled, laying 3 


| | 
duty of ſome articles, fuch as glaſs, paper, painters colours,” and te, ex. | 
| 8 ed from Britain to America; and at the ſame time another law was | 
wy made, for enabling his ow rl to put the American cuſtoms and other du- 
ties under the management of commiſſioners to refide in that country, with 
tthepowers formerly exerciſed by the commiſſionersof the cuſtonisin England, 
A4 As theſe laſt acts touched them in a moſt tender point, it was not to be 

wondered that great diſturbances en ſued. The Americans: conſidered it 
as very grievous, that they ſhould not be allowed to purchaſe thoſe commo- 
* _ . dities from any other place than Great Britain, and at the ſame time that # 
” the price of them ſhould be increaſed by taxegy and the expenceFof keeping h 
8 collectors for theſe taxes. This appeared to them as the higheſt degree ot ſ 
"4M oppreſſion ; firſt to ſend three thouſand miles for theſe — 4 & to . 
| pay what price the merchant pleaſed for them ; and thus allow him d large w 
profit, which they could not remedy, as not being allowed to purchaſethen t 
any where elſe; and in the laſt place, to pay an arbitrary tax to government F 
which for any thing they knew, might be increaſed without limitation: b 
The affair of the cuſtomhouſe, which was now eſtabliſhed in its full force « 

by the ſending over commiſſioners, was: a grievance, becauſe it prevented 
their ſmuggling with the Spaniards, or any where elſe, and thus ftopt the w 
only ſource whence they could derive their money. Hence the officers of the th 
cuſtoms met with the moſt indecent and barbarous treatment; and when hi 
ſome troops arrived at Boſton in 1568, in order to affiſt the civil goverament bi 
there, the inhabitants made allthe oppoſition they could to the getting then 26 
| properly quartered, _.. *. n M 
15 It would require a volume to deſcribe all the different manceuyres" of the 
contending parties to gain their point. Numberleſs were the tumults, riots, and et 
C threatnings, not only in Boſton, but throughout all America. Reſolutions fig 
4 were entered- into againſt importing any of the taxed articles, and to declare co 
1 } \ | thoſe public enemies who did. Theſe reſolutions, however, were very it- qu 
„ differently kept, numbers endeavouring, by large private importations, 0 Wa 
1 avail themſelves of the public diſturbances. On the other hand, the Briib WW t« 
3 legiſlature, no doubt, perceiving that there was no medium between abſolute ed 
14 ſubjection, and entire liberty to the Americans, refuſed to relax one Art aff 
1 | "of the obnoxious acts of parliament, and there ſeemed now to be nothing to 
| but a continual conteſt between the goyernors and their aſſemblies, the — ſub 
1 ter always entering into reſolutions contrary to the deſign of the — req 
S | parliament, and the former endeavouring in vain to perſuade them * = 
| were wrong in ſo doing; ſo that ſeeing both were firmly fixed in their ane ul 
| | ent opinions, there ſeemed, even then, to be no remedy, „ — 
1 But, though from the principles of the Americans, and their — 1 
© | with regard to the mother country, jt ſeems impoffible chat ni — — 
3 ſhould not have happened, 2nd though they were again reduced to _ * 
ence, it ſeems equally impoſſible that the peace ſhould laſt, yet = — — 
| Help thinking, that the diſturbances occaſioned by the patriots u * il — 
1 try, contributed very much to bring tbe Amerjcan affairs ſooher — 2 Bri 
than otherwiſe would have happened, Thefe aroſe immediately — — — 


dluſon of the late prace with France. This nation hating Ve, 


_ % 2 K th. : 
% * = * 
». 
N 
* A : 


II A M E RAT CAT 70 


efeful in the preceding war, it may readily be ſuppoſed, that the minds 
of the generality ran upon nothing but ſpoils-and-conqueſt ; always rech 
ing the wealth of a nation from its wide extended dominions, *as that of an * * 
individual is from the quantity of goods, or money he bas in his poſſeſſion. |” 
however, who conſidered the vaſt expence and burden of a war, / 
together with the difficulty of defending and preſerving vaſt conqueſts, were 
| of a different opinion; and therefore when Mr Pitt, now lord Chatham, re- | 

6gned the ſeals, under whoſe auſpices the war had been ſucceſsfully carried -*_ 
oa, pacific meaſures were entered into, and the war carried on with the view on- 4 
y of obtaining an honourable peace. When the peace was concluded, many ' 
of the Britiſh conqueſts were given up; the province of Canada, however, * 
was kept, that the Americans might never have any thing more to fear from ke 
the French, who formerly were ſuch troubleſome neighbours. The idea of 
giving up conquered countries is what never enters into the mind of the ge- L 
nerality. Thus a fair foundation was laid for thoſe who were out of power 
to rail againit thoſe who were in, and which they did not fail to make the 
moſt of, Accordingly, numberleſs were the complaints made of the ſname- 
ful peace which had been concluded after fo glorious a war, with bitter in- 
vectives againſt the Earl of Bute as the peace-maker, and encomiums on 
Mr Pitt, as the ſaviour of his country. The famous Mr Wilkes, in part: 
eular, proceeded ſo far in this way, that it was thought neceſlary to appre- 
bend his perſon. This was Mone by what is called a general warrant; and | 
ſome illegality having beet uſed in ſeizing him, an occafion was given him 
and his adherents to raiſe a cry of on; which, when once begun, 
was eaſily continued, and Wilkes was looked upon as a martyr to the liber - 
ty of his country, Having had the misfortune likewiſe to be indicted for 
blaſphemy, and being at the ſame time under a parliamentary proſecution, 
be was obliged to fly to France, when he was outlawed in Britain for non- 
appearance. 12 « wat: ones | 

This perſecution of an individual, who but for that very perſecution , 
would have been contemptible, ſerved only to make the faction grow. ſtill 
the ſtronger. On Wilkes's return to England, he obtained a reverſion of 
his outlawry, was thrice choſen member of parliament for Middleſex, and 
his election as often declared null and void, Colonel Lutterel taking his ſeat, 
— —— for that county, notwithſtanding a great majority in favour of 

r UKes. a 


An attack made upon the liberty of election was conſidered as the great - 
eſt grievance imaginable 3 although we may eafily ſuppoſe it poſſible for paſ- | 
hon or prejudice to influence the majority of the free-holders- of a ſingle 
county, ſo as to cauſe them err in judgment, and elect a perſon totally un- 
qualified for ſitting in the great legiſlative council of the nation, A ſociety 
waz now formed, under the name of the Bill of Rights Society, which was 
ta preſerve the rights of the people, but in-what manner was not mention- 
ed, and large ſums were ſubſcribed for this purpoſe. In the mean time, the 
affairs of the Americans, as of brethren in the like diſtreſs, were taken in- 
to confideration, and a general defign of impoſing ſlavery upon the whole 
ſubjects of the Britiſh empire was thought to have taken place; Petitions, 
remonſtrances, &c. which carried in them ſomething of the appearance of 
threats were preſented to the king from all quarters; the moſt ſcurrilous a- 
buſe was poured forth on the king, the miniſtry, and the Scots; in ſhort, 
nothing but actual taking up of arms ſeemed wanting to the commence» 
ment of a rebellion, | 


The leaders of the Americans, knowing of theſe diſturbances'in Britain, 
and no doubt repreſenting them to be greater than they were, certainly 
found con fiderably lefs difficulty, than otherwiſe they would have done, in 


+ 


ITA 


T KS 


= 


AAS AAT 


BESOERAR 


WAS 


ating the different colonies into ſuch an aſſociation as they have entered 
mo. The houſes of repreſentatives reſembling the parliament of Great 
Britain, the expulſion of Wilkes from the Britiſh parliament, was judged 
at indiguity fimilar to American taxation without repreſentation at a 


— * 7 am 


* * * « 1 9 hn.” * a | 
* 


A : 6,4 * 1 £ hy . 
% * „ 
( 4 * 
r HISTORY GY WAS + 
1 of Middleſex did not account themſelves d-by c 
. a Lakes, The patriots-in Britain, therefore, warmlz e * 
„ emerica cauſe; as the Americans themſelves eſpouſed tan the. N 
| "patriots when occafion offered. - Vi _— 
"While th@ Americans bad tumour was fil golng on from eg 
5 the Beim Parliament, as if to try whether they * at wht. 
__ ©: "je, made an act by which" the duties were taken off from iat, painter 
| 527 —_— paper a paſteboard, &c. exported" from Britain to Aivetica. 
ie Ingle article of tea was left out, | Which was à duty of three- 
Penee per pound, But though this bad ſome effect in Yifolving the von- 
„ importation agreements * entered into with regard to all commodi- 
de imported from Britain, the flame was only fmothered for & little time, 
| -, Feemingly that it might break out with greater weleher, y the teloty. 
Zauoͤ'o0ons of ſeveral of the Colonies, indeed, tex was Riritly probibited* but 
| Kill continued to be catiouſſy introduced; arid the duty paid on it, fo that 
.+_ * the American Patriots had the mortification to ſeß that taxation would is 
ſome ſhape or other take place whether they would or not. 


7 Beides the tea - duty and the cuſtom-houſea, Hawever, other matter; 
| + -* fprung up which added fuel to the flame. Iu & time af ſuch general diftur- 
12 bance, it was evidently very improper that the 2 of the Provinces 
„ . hould'havea — on the people for theiyſubtiſtence, as this was put- 
ting them entirely in the power of the inhabitaßte deo compell them to what 
ttmey pleaſed. A ſalary from the crown was thergfore given them ; and this 
gave occaſion to the people to complain of want of confidence-in them, al 
though it evidently appeared unſafe to truſt them. © 
I be cuſtom+houſes, however, for the reaſon we have already given, were, 
+. and behoved to be the greateſt eye · ſore; and therefore, June 10. ½% the 
pecple at providence in Rhode - Iſland aſſembled to the number of z00; md 
.» burned his Majeſty's ſcooner, the Gaſpee, which had been ſtationed there, 
to prevent their ſmuggling. Neither could the author, or any accomplice 
of ſuck -a daring exploit be found out, though a reward of gool, was of 
fered for the diſcovery. (13414344 23h n 
As the article of tea was fo generally diſcouraged throughout the cone, 
it appeared to the Britiſh miniſtry, that the Kaſt-Iudia company behoved 
to be a very conſiderable loſer, having then no leſs than ſeventeen millions 
of pounds on hand. Leave was therefore given to this prom wp ha - 
their teas, duty free, to all places whatſoever; and accordingly feveralitn 
freighted with 1t were ſent to the American colonies. ; 


This meaſure was conſidered by the Americans as a method of inſenhbly 
. fubjeQing them to taxation, and therefore they reſolved to prevent the fri 
beginning of it. This could be done only by hindering the landing of be 
tea; for if once this was permitted, it could eaffly be foreſeen that u hei- 
| lutions whatever would prevent its being diſpoſed of. For this reaſon, when 
* the tea ſhips arrived at Boſton, and had been for ſwme time very nearthe 
ſhore, it being apprehended, that their cargoes would,” by degrees, be pn 
vately landed, and fold ; a number of people dreſſed hike Mohawk tagans 
boarded the ſhips, and threw the cargoes into the ſea.” Several lefſerquan* 
' < tities of tea met with the ſame fate in the other provinces and um tn 
time we may date the total ceffation of all kind of friendſhip between Get 
Britain and her colonies. ' | 1 
It could not be thought that an outrage ot ſuch a nature would paſs - 
noticed. The Boſtonians refuſed to make ſati: faction for the tea which 
been deſtroyed ; and the Britiſh Legiſlature reſolved to infli&-punithmen 
A bill for ſhutting vp Boſton port was brought into parliament, and — 
tho" with ſome oppolition. Boſtonians, inſtead of repenting err with 
the more irritated by this meaſure, The reft of the colonies,” looking 
compaſſion on the inhabitants of that city, who were throwing the — 
eſt diſtreſs by the execution of this. act, contributed verylargely * 


* 


?' | = 


\ 


. 


4% 
{a 
© 


\ 


— 


N q h 's 5 ws q 1 4 — Y k 
r * ö ] — "4 N * 
#4 BD p — 


+ 1 M N 1 0 * | 
eric. rom — k ry 
with s fa * | 
— 1 
Mr Wilkes; inthe 


- 


. 
, 
* F 


92 


2 


u, en at Philadelphia ; and this 
the ſupreme Eeidadive wer in Britiſh Am 
tition was ſent to the King in November 1774, but did not 


»o — 


was now entered into; under 
— o whoyg that time the of Boſt | 
in arms, that gene age, at F governor on, i. 4 
the neceſſity of fortifying that place in order to preſerve himſelf aud te 4 | 
troops under his - + | | "TH * J 
On the 19th of April 1775, the general having notice of a quantity of i- 


the prov 


FF e 


tters tary ſtores which were about to be conveyed to the Provincial army, ent 
ſtur- 2 detachment of grenadiers to deſtroy them; which they did, but were at- 14 
nett tacked in their return by the Americans, who killed and wounded à coufi- - 

put- derable number of them, firing from behind Kone-walls and hedges to ſercen © 

what themſelves in the beſt r they could. after this the Pro- 

| this rincial army ſhut up the king's forces in Boſton, cloſely inveſted the 

„ a place. General Gage now ins proclamation, declaring all thoſe rebels 

. who did not immediately lay their arms. To this the provincial paid 

were, no regard, but on the 2oth of June erected a battery againſt che town, up- --- 
, the on an eminence called Bunker's Hill, Here they were attacked by the Bri- ©* 

"and tiſh troops, who drove them from their works, though greatly ſuperior in 

have numbers, and very n burning the ſmall town of Charles - 

plice town at a ſmall diſtance Boſton. . * 1 
s of War being thus begun, the Congreſs openly aſſumed. the ſovereignty, 


ſhut up the courts of law, and entirely altered the form of ment . 
throughout the continent. A part of the American army, under Genera! 
Montgomery, entered the province of Canada, which they entirely reduces 
excepting the city of Quebee, where general Carleton commanded. + 
This place was reduced to great ſtraits ; but on the tt of December, Ge- 
neral Montgomery having attempted to take it by ſtorm, was killed, toge- 
ther with the flower of his army. This ſevere check ſo damped the Ame» 
rican valour, that, on the 6th of May 1776, when ſome freſh t arrived. 
from Britain to the affiſtance of General Carleton, 3000 of the ncials 

fled before r500 of the Britiſh troops, without Ropping til they reached 
Sorrel, which is 140 miles diſtant from Quebec. | | 4 


General Gage having left Major General Howe commander at Boſton, 
returned to England. His ſucceſſor by reaſon of the great number of his 
enemies could attempt nothing; and no ſuccours arriving from Britain; 
the town was evacuated in the 18th of March 1776, when the rebels under 
General Waſhington took poſſeſſion of it. 


The tranſactions of the year 1775 having made it apparent that no pacific. 
meaſures could with any propriety be purſued, a numerous fleet and army | | 
were ſent under the command of Lord Howe, brother to the General of that | 
name who commanded at Boſton, and who ſailed for Halifax after bis de- 
rture from thence. On the other hand, the Americans ſeem not to have q 
n wanting in the utmoſt efforts of buman ſkill to put themſelves in a 
poſture of defence. Their main army was now ſtationed at New 
ors, where very ſtrong fortifications were raiſed, in ſuch a manner as to 
be der med almoſt impregnable. In the beginning of June 1776, the Con- 
ercls iſſued a proclamation, declaring the united colomes free and indepen- 
deut States, and in the month following declared war in form againſt Great 


* © 


* 


Lit 411 


Kreis 


- * 
-- a > . 
- * 4 9 al 4 - — 
= 
* 
* = 


* p | 
{| £ CTY oy 
5 ol 1 y 


4 ? Y of \ 1 * . - ar R 
i | "i = a” = 4 * o e 4 <.Y * * * 
: FAS. 4 52 1 * : "8. i Eo. 
. "# 1 Oe . 1 4 C * N * * K 
4 * * - 


ag —_ ren 5 vas 1 „ * 
r ra 


. and in ſhort, a new 


Ta - U Lord Howe's arrival be was met by fome ambalie 

_ . who wanted to treat of peace, but as "they found E 
1 . ccive them in what they thought their proper character namely of. 
*- _ ambaſſadors, nor could offer them any OO 
nh to bis majeſty's clemency,. no negociation took place... | 


Wy The war thus determined on, hath proved every: whey | 
4 A Amerioene, except in an attempt made on own in qo 
where the Britiſh Tquadron, under Sir Peter Parker, was lfed by. 
e provincials commanded by General Lee, and where conkers dam 
was done from a fort by the cannon, it is ſaid, which belonged to the WH 
droyant, aud were made a preſent of, to the province of South Carats 


| 5 I 
W * About the middle of September, General Howe attacked the ch 
Long Inland near New York, when they abandoned very ſtrong inte_ 
ments after a very light reſiſtance, flying to the main body at N 
Thie city was taken in a fe days after, was then ſet on fire by wa 
tte rebel emiſſaries, and about a fourth part of it deſtroyed.” Then 
my till retreating, was attacked and defeated at the White Plains, Wars 
* —— forts, Fort Waſhington and Fort Lee taken, together e 
mber of their priſoners, and the reſt of their army, obliged to er 
= dow England. 
8 5 After the death of 8 Montgomery, the rebelk in Canada will 
1 capable of making any farther oppoſition. General Carleton ei 
* the troops under General yne, drove them entirely out os 
Duh + 6 vince; and having with i le labour conveyed large ſhips over 4 
the lakes, attacked and a rats a nn oni 
poſttion can now ariſe from t 
1 „To complete their bad fortune, the laſt gazette e brings inteltinil 
3 Rs)hoge - Iſland being taken poſſeſſion of by General Clinton, the vebels 
12 it before his arrival. In ſhort, the don or ene 
95 can republic ſeems faſt approaching, and in all probability c 
is 5 \ ſabliſted three months longer, had not the : HY Winter na 


ra 


56 


— — LEN - a—* — - _ 
Tone pars SW. 5 

7 F = 1 * 

* —_— ” 


—— — 


a 93 2 x0 

N "I; 

1 * 
r 


it impoſſible for the troops to 0 48. 
Z = a 4 2 
9 N * * ; LES r 
1 1 
- 1.4 IE * 
© < — 4 * . 1 \ 
. ö * , ** <0 
| Janviny 15. | 1 * 
1 * : 
» 5 p ö ' we 
7 * 2 - 
9 * * af : | : 5 
9 — pa * 
A - ' „ 1 
** he 7 
50 5 N * 4 4 
4 1 . 
' T H E E . N D. 7; = 
— K U \ 
' N 
2 PC 
Wt, -" * a £ 
* * * | 1 - C * 9 
75 0 4 1 
a | : | 4 : =. 
2 * 1 
: E re Lo 
a L : 
4 5 * . wy 
* —_— 7 


